Are you a content creator in Africa? Get in Here!!! One of the most exciting features of this year’s Global Africa Forum on Communications will be the session with David Lennon who will be hosting a special fireside on branded content. Brands are talking content now, it’s a big deal globally and it’s only apt that we seize the opportunity to grow the space for branded content on the African Continent. With over 250 global awards to his name, David Lennon is unarguably one of the world’s most sought after and awarded branded content specialists.  David Lennon is a Creative Director with a proven track record in building out successful teams at global media companies. He recently joined Fortune Media Group as Executive Creative Director of their commercial department in New York, having previously worked at Vice Media (Brooklyn) as Global creative director, Wall Street Journal (New York) and Bloomberg (New York & London). Lennon has created branded content and commercial campaigns for many Fortune 500 companies, helping generate $500 million in ad sales revenue. His creative genius has been felt on brands like Netflix, Morgan Stanley, MetLife, Delta Airlines and many others. David Lennon will be on the continent for the first time to host a live fireside chat with leading African brands and content professionals on branded content. The session will offer practical insights, case studies, Q&A session with participants. The Global Africa Forum on Communications will bring together more than 1,000 Corporate Communications, PR, Advertising, Media and Marketing executives from Corporations, Startups, government institutions and other organizations around Africa. Led by more than 50 global industry leaders in communications and marketing as panellists, the forum will reflect on Africa’s image and explore new frontiers to position African entities for global growth. The forum will feature comprehensive and insightful panel sessions, keynotes, case studies and exclusive fire side-chats with selected industry pioneers from our line-up of world-class speakers. Arden and Newton is sponsoring a 50% discount on the early bird tickets of $600 for fifty content strategists, producers and curators in media, advertising, branding, communications and marketing to the forum in Rwanda this August. This also includes admission to fully participate in the conference. Other travel support, which includes hotel and airline discounts also exists for, interested participants. Visit the registration page via bit.ly/GAFCOMM and use the coupon code arden10 to claim your discount. See you there!!!