Kigali, the capital of the East African country Rwanda will this week play host to the  Global Africa Forum on Communications (GAFCOMM); the first of its kind in the country and continent. The conference which will take place from August 21 to 23, 2019 at the Kigali Convention Center is themed  Speak For Africa: New communications frontier for Africa’s growth story. This event hosted by TheNerve Africa will be a gathering of Africa’s most influential communicators, marketing professionals, company spokespersons, CEOS, media & policy leaders, journalists, as well as reputable PR, brand and marketing agencies shaping the fortunes and future of the continent through communications. The connection between strategic communications and economic development of regions around the world cannot be overemphasized. Some of the world’s most ambitious countries and regions have over time integrated communications variables into economic models leading to a more positive outlook, good reputation and attractiveness to investments. Same cannot be said of most of Africa. GAFCOMM will bring together more than 1,000 Corporate Communications, PR, Advertising, Media and Marketing executives from Corporations, Startups, government institutions and other organizations around Africa. Led by more than 50 global industry leaders in communications and marketing as panellists, the forum will reflect on Africa’s image and explore new frontiers to position African entities for global growth. The event has a line up of global heavyweights and industry leaders in communication and marketing who will be discussing various topics. The sessions are designed to offer participants the most thought-provoking conversations, case studies, global best practices, and challenging takeaways. During the conference, there will also be a creativity festival which will provide a platform to celebrate and showcase the best of Africa’s advertising, led by agencies, media, and marketing technology companies, in an atmosphere synonymous with global creativity festivals like Cannes. One of the most exciting features of this year’s Global Africa Forum on Communications will be the session with David Lennon who will be hosting a special fireside on branded content. Brands are talking content now, it’s a big deal globally and it’s only apt that we seize the opportunity to grow the space for branded content on the African Continent. With over 250 global awards to his name, David Lennon is unarguably one of the world’s most sought after and awarded branded content specialists. David Lennon is a Creative Director with a proven track record in building out successful teams at global media companies. Apart from David Lennon – Global Creative Director, Fortune Magazine, New York, other speakers include  Moky Makura – Deputy Director Communications, Africa, Bill And Melinda Gates Foundation; Tim Morris – Senior Adviser, Africa Matters Limited, London; Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, Ghana’s Minister for Information; Brad Ross – Marketing, Customer and Commercial Director, Coca Cola West Africa Business Unit; Gina Din-kariuki – CEO & Founder of Gina Din Group, Kenya; Terhas Asefaw Berhe – CEO, Brand Comms Group, London; Patricia Obozuwa, Chief Communications & Public Affairs Officer for GE Africa; Marcus Ryder, Chief International Editor at CGTN;  Andisa Ntsubane, Head: Africa Marketing, Old Mutual Limited; Gomolemo Lolo Madikgetla, Marketing Manager, RMB, Botswana; Lesego Kotane, Managing Director of King James Johannesburg, Hannah Wanjie Ryder, CEO of Development Reimagined China; Claudine Moore Founder & MD, C. Moore Media International Public Relations & Adjunct Professor, New York University;  Sean Kerrigan, National Director, World Vision Rwanda; Gina Din-Kariuki, CEO & Founder Of Gina Din Group, Kenya; Steve Babaeko, CEO X3M Ideas, Nigeria; Eloïne Barry is the Founder and CEO of African Media Agency New York; Thebe Ikalafeng, Founder and Managing Director, Brand Leadership Group, South Africa; Mimi Kalinda, Co-founder, Africa Communications Media Group; Artur Miranda, Regional Operations Director, Coca-Cola East & Central Africa Franchise; Wendy Tlou, Group Head, Communications and Brand, Lonmin Plc, South Africa; Richard Kiplagat – MD for East Africa, Africa Practice; Julia Oku Jacks, Lead Consultant, Julia Jacks Consulting, Nigeria; Lekan Lawal, COO, Leo Burnett, Nigeria and  Ibim Semenitari, Chief Executive Officer, Shophar Nigeria Limited. Why Rwanda was chosen for a pan African summit of this class Rwanda is currently one of Africa’s hottest travel and conferencing destinations. It was voted by CNN travel among 18 best places to visit in 2018, Rwanda is a jewel yet to be experienced by most of Africa’s corporate professionals. Rwanda is also reputed as one of the most open in Visa Openness Index. Rwanda offers Visa on Arrival to passport holders of all countries of the world, making it a great travel destination of choice. Rwanda seems the most logical choice due to its centralized location and a national airline offering connections to most business hubs across Africa. Rwanda currently has one of the most modern, state-of-the-art conferencing facilities in Africa. Our venue of choice, the Radisson Blu Kigali Convention Center was recently crowned Africa’s leading Conference Hotel by the World Travel Awards.