The President of the United States of America Donald Trump has extended sanctions on Zimbabwe for another year, citing the lack of significant improvement in government policy in the southern African country. “The actions and policies of these persons continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of the United States,” Trump said in a notice announcing the extension, published on the White House website. The extension comes despite calls from African leaders such as South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa to lift the sanctions. It would also be recalled that Zimbabwe’s president, Emmerson Mnangagwa had also called for the sanctions to be lifted against the ZANU-PF ruling party, top military figures and some government-owned firms. The U.S. placed these sanctions on them over what it said were human rights violations and undermining of the democratic process. There are 141 entities and individuals in Zimbabwe, including Mnangagwa and ousted president Robert Mugabe, currently under U.S. sanctions. The sanctions will remain until the government of President Emmerson Mnangagwa changes Zimbabwe’s laws restricting media freedom and allowing protests, U.S. officials told Reuters. The first sanction was placed on Zimbabwe on March 6, 2003, by President George W. Bush. The President declared a national emergency and ceased the properties of certain persons because their dealings were an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of the United States. According to the president, these actions and policies had contributed to the deliberate breakdown in the rule of law in Zimbabwe, to politically motivated violence and intimidation as well as political and economic instability in the southern African region. On November 22, 2005, President George W. Bush took additional steps by ordering the ceasing of the property of additional persons undermining democratic processes or institutions in Zimbabwe. The scope of the sanction was extended again on July 25, 2008, by President W. Bush. On  March 4, 2009, President Barack Obama extended the sanctions further. He said that some people are continuing to undermine the country’s democratic processes.  The sanction was  continously extended until Obama handed over office to Donald Trump in 2017. Generally, sanctions have both direct and indirect impacts on the economy because it would make it harder to attract foreign investors and other activities that would revive the Zimbabwean economy. Currently, many businesses in Zimbabwe are being affected since they are not being considered for business, trade and partnerships with American or Western firms. It is also worthy to note that it costs more for Zimbabwean businesses to raise capital offshore to run their businesses than it does for countries not under restrictions.