South Africa’s broad-based multinational internet and media group, Naspers plans on float its e-commerce ventures on the Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam. These e-commerce ventures include Naspers stakes in China’s Tencent, Russia’s mail.ru and food delivery app iFood combined to form NewCo. Naspers on Monday, March 25, announced its intention to list NewCo, a new global consumer internet group and other e-commerce ventures on Euronext Amsterdam. The company also intends to list NewCo as a secondary inward listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in South Africa. “NewCo will comprise all of Naspers’s internet interests outside of South Africa, including its companies and investments in the online classifieds, food delivery, payments, retail, travel, education, and social and internet platforms sectors, among others. They are some of the world’s leading and fastest-growing internet brands, such as Tencent, mail.ru, OLX, Avito, letgo, PayU, iFood, Swiggy, DeliveryHero, Udemy, eMAG and MakeMyTrip,” a statement by the company said. NewCo is expected to be approximately 75 percent owned by Naspers and have a free float of approximately 25 percent, having being subject to and obtaining the requisite regulatory and shareholder approvals. “As Europe’s largest listed consumer internet company by asset value, NewCo will give global internet investors direct access to Naspers’s unique and attractive portfolio of international internet assets,” the company noted. In 2001, Naspers invested $32 million in Tencent, which was then a little-known Chinese startup but now the investment is worth $175 billion with Naspers’s market value up to about $125.5 billion. In 2018, the company needed to reinforce its balance sheet and accelerate growth, so it sold two percent of its Tencent Holdings shares for $10.6 billion. Naspers acquired 30 percent stake in Russia’s first free e-mail services cum internet portal, Mail.ru, in 2007 for $165 million. Naspers also invested $1.16 billion in Russia’s Avito, the third largest classifieds advertisement and property platform in the world, in January 2019. The money was to acquire a further 29.1 percent after initially acquiring shares from existing shareholders including Northzone, Accel Partners and Kinnevik for $1.2 billion in 2013 to become the largest shareholder in Avito. Bob van Dijk, Naspers Chief Executive Officer stated that “Forming and listing a new, global consumer internet group on Euronext Amsterdam is a significant step for Naspers. It will provide a strong platform to attract incremental investor capital, which is well-aligned to our growth goals. The listing will present an appealing new opportunity for international tech investors to have access to our unique portfolio of international internet assets. It will comprise some of the world’s leading and fastest-growing internet companies that are playing an increasingly important role in helping people improve their daily lives in some of the most exciting markets on the planet. As well as opening up investment to a broader category of investors, the listing aims to reduce our weighting on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, which we believe will help us maximise shareholder value over time.” The proposed transaction is currently expected to be implemented no earlier than the second half of 2019.