There is a humanitarian crisis in southern African states of Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi where hundreds of thousands of people are in need of food, water and shelter after Cyclone Idai wreaked havoc as it stormed through the countries. At least 686 people have been reported killed by the storm and associated extreme weather conditions. According to the United Nations humanitarian agency OCHA, about 1.85 million people have now been affected by Cyclone Idai and its aftermath in Mozambique alone. “Some will be in critical, life threatening situations. Some will sadly have lost their livelihoods, which whilst an appalling tragedy is not immediately life threatening,” OCHA coordinator Sebastian Rhodes Stampa said on Tuesday. “We can determine the size, we can’t determine the circumstance. So we’re now going out on the ground, dropping people off from helicopters to determine what the critical needs are,” Stampa added. Idai brought about widespread flooding when it made landfall near the Mozambique port city of Beira on March 14 before it continued through Zimbabwe and Malawi. In Mozambique, which is the hardest hit by the humanitarian crisis, 447 people have been killed, 1,500 injured, 33,600 houses damaged and 500,000 hectares of crops damaged. About 250,000 people have been affected in Zimbabwe where Idai hit on March 16. 179 people were killed according to the Zimbabwean government, which adds that 329 people are still unaccounted for and 200 injured. The U.N. migration agency puts the death toll at 259. In Malawi where heavy rains and flooding preceded the storm, 60 people were killed and 672 injured. More than 19,000 households were displaced. In total, 868,895 people were affected by the disaster in Malawi. Mozambican Prime Minister Carlos Agostinho do Rosario told reporters on Monday that while the worst excesses of the flooding occasioned by Idai had been contained, the country was still reeling under the challenges of the disaster. “Everything that must be done is being done, I can assure you all,” Do Rosario said. “People must continue to stay in safer and higher places, relief is definitely on the way. No death must happen again because help has not reached them. Food, shelter and medical attention are critically needed.