Following three agreements in 2018, between Asian-Guinean consortium Société Minière de Boké-Winning Africa and the Government of the Republic of Guinea for the execution of a comprehensive project for the Boké region valued at $3 billion, the foundation stone for a new railway line was laid on Friday, in the presence of Guinean President Professor Alpha Condé, marking the renewal of the Guinean rail sector. The last construction of a railway line in the West African country dates back to the 1970s. The three agreements include the construction of a 135-kilometer railway line in a corridor from the Boffa to the Boké region, the production and industrial exploitation of bauxite resources in the new mining areas of Santou II and Houda, and the construction and operation of an alumina refinery in the Boké Special Economic Zone. SMB-Winning Consortium currently mines bauxite in Boké region from where it transports the mineral to China. The railway will connect the Dapilon terminal of the Boké port and the deposits of SMB at Santou and Houda near the Prefecture of Télimélé. The railway will be composed of numerous engineering structures, including 23 bridges and 3 tunnels for a total investment valued at $1.2 billion. In parallel, the Dapilon terminal will benefit from additional investments in its infrastructure in order to become a real intermodal maritime and rail terminal, while the Port of Boké has already been registered in the International Maritime Organization’s (IMO) integrated global maritime information system in 2018. “The construction of this new railway reflects Guinea’s attractiveness to mining investors,” said Abdoulaye Magassouba, Minister of Mines and Geology, who was present at the laying of the foundation stone for the project. “Government reforms have allowed companies like the SMB-Winning Consortium to grow rapidly and place Guinea among the top three bauxite producers in the world within a few years,” he added. The SMB-Winning consortium, which was founded in 2014, leverages the experience of three partners in the fields of bauxite mining, production and transportation: Singaporean shipping company Winning Shipping Ltd, UMS, a French owned transport and logistics company that has been in Guinea for over 20 years, and Shandong Weiqiao, a leading Chinese company in aluminum production. The consortium exported about 30 million tons of bauxite in 2017, making Guinea the world’s largest exporter of bauxite. The consortium transports the mineral to China via ships operated by Winning Shipping and Shadong Weiqiao, both part of the SMB Consortium. Mr. Sun Xiushun, President and CEO of the SMB-Winning Consortium said the commencement of the rail project “testifies to the win-win partnership that the Consortium has established with Guinea”. “It is through common values – mining and industrial development, local content and employment – that Sino-Guinean friendship is embodied, taking shape through large-scale projects such as this new railway line.” SMB’s CEO Frédéric Bouzigues said that the goal was to start operations in 2022. Guinea’s mineral wealth goes beyond bauxite; the country also has more than 4-billion tonnes of high-grade iron ore, as well as significant diamond and gold deposits. Oil exploration companies are also checking out prospects in the country. However, despite its mineral wealth, and high per capita income — the highest in Africa — Guinea is one of the poorest countries in the world, with more than 55 percent of its population living below the poverty line. Widespread corruption in the West African country, especially among government officials, explains why the country has not benefited enough from its mineral wealth. It is also worthy of note that the 2014-15 Ebola crisis affected the economy but corruption has done worse. According to The Borgen Project, a nonprofit fighting against poverty and hunger, the government invests heavily in sketchy infrastructure projects with inflated prices and little social value. “To put it into perspective, the government of Guinea spends $80 out of every $100 in its budget on construction projects, but only dedicates $2-3 to health and education. Thus, the citizens continue to suffer from illiteracy and poor health and have no way to escape poverty,” the nonprofit noted. However, Fadi Wazni, Chairman of the Board of Directors of SMB said the company had made the inclusive and sustainable dimension part of the work essential, “as evidenced by the importance we give to local content and community relations”.