Kenya recently signed infrastructural deals worth over €2 billion ($2.26 billion) with France. This took place during a two-day visit to Kenya by the president of France, Emmanuel Macron who hopes to deepen France’s economic ties with Africa. His visit also marks the first ever by a French head of state since Kenya’s independence. “In Kenya, there is an economic opportunity and it’s within the president’s strategy in France to look at not just Francophone Africa, but Anglophone Africa too,” a French presidential source told Voice of America. This will be the 16th African country Macron is visiting after Ghana, Ivory Coast, Mali, Burkina Faso, Nigeria, Ethiopia, Djibouti, Chad, Morocco, Egypt, Algeria, Niger, Senegal, Tunisia and Mauritania. Since Macron became the president of France in May 2017, he has shown a lot of interest in Africa. His first visit outside Europe was to Mali where he met with the French troops fighting insurgency in West Africa. In a clear move to show his affinity for the continent, Macron has also always expressed regret about the crimes of colonialism in Africa. During one of his trips to the continent, he said that colonialism was a part of French history, a crime against humanity and truly barbaric. During a visit to Ouagadougou, the capital of Burkina Faso, in November 2017, President Macron outlined France’s diplomatic and financial commitments to build relations with Africa. It is no longer news that Macron’s popularity in France is being threatened, but efforts to improve French international diplomacy and influence in Africa, may not be enough to help Macron fix his troubles back home. It is worthy to note that  France’s presence in Africa is focused largely on its former colonies. There are more than 100 million French speakers in Africa, representing almost half the number of French speakers in the world. A lot of  French citizens can also trace their heritage back to Africa and this was visible in the 2018 FIFA World Cup winning French team where at least 14 of its players were of African descent. Apart from the language, 15 African countries in both West and Central Africa still make use of The CFA franc currency which reserves are held in France’s Central Bank. French companies import commodities from many West and Central African countries, such as uranium ore from Niger and Gabon or cocoa from Ivory Coast.  About 9,000 French soldiers are stationed in those countries fighting terrorists and training African troops. However, despite having colonized some African countries its economic relations within the continent seems to have reduced drastically with the influx of more Chinese loans and partnerships. Most African countries now prefer to take loans from China which is readily available to assist as opposed to France. According to data from the China Africa Research Initiative, from 2000 to 2017, the Chinese government, banks and contractors extended $143 billion in loans to African governments and their state-owned enterprises (SOEs). As of 2016, Chinese investment in Africa reached $38.4 billion in 2016, compared to France’s  $7.7 billion. Available data also revealed that France has remained heavily focused on commodities trade with over 80 percent of its imports in 2016 coming from sub-Saharan African countries. These investments were done in several countries which includes Côte d’Ivoire and Djibouti. China’s investment in Côte d’Ivoire increased from nothing to $2.5 billion between 2010 and 2015 and it also has several contracts in the country which includes developing a port, constructing a highway from Abidjan to Grand Bassam and building sports facilities. While Djibouti was regarded as a key French outpost in the past, China also seems to have a growing presence in the country. The country hosts France’s largest naval base in Africa with 1,400 French personnel who train African troops and monitor the Horn of Africa and Yemen. It also has a U.S. military base used as a launchpad for operations against Islamist militants in Yemen and Somalia, but in 2013 China opened its largest overseas military base in the country, rivalling those of Paris and Washington. China has provided financial aid, developed industrial output in Djibouti and poured investment into infrastructure projects, including upgrading a French railway built in 1917 linking Djibouti to Ethiopia’s capital Addis Ababa. Macron was also received at Djibouti’s new Chinese-built presidential palace. From all indications, Macron is being threatened by China’s growing dominance in places where French used to wield influence. This was confirmed when Maron during his visit to Africa  recently said “China is a great world power and has expanded its presence in many countries, especially in Africa, in recent years […] but what can look good in the short term […] can often end up being bad over the medium to long term. I wouldn’t want a new generation of international investments to encroach on our historical partners’ sovereignty or weaken their economies.”