Nigeria’s leading digital agriculture platform which allows Nigerians to invest in agriculture, Farmcrowdy, on March 21, 2019, announced that it has closed a new $1 million seed funding. The fundraising was led by International and local investors which includes  Cox Enterprises, Techstars and Ajayi Solutions. This comes over a year after it raised $1 million from Cox Enterprises, Techstars Ventures, Social Capital, Hallett Capital and Right-Side Capital; as well as angel investors Tyler Scriven, Michael Cohn, Josephine Group, FC Agro Allied SPV and Dr Christof Walter. “Today ’s announcement of this additional funding marks another milestone for us as we amplify our presence in the country and explore new opportunities. We are delving into the possibility of utilising drone services for field analysis, improving our farmers yield with additional research and 3D mapping, as well as entering into formidable strategic partnerships that will grow the impact of our work,” said Onyeka Akumah, Founder and CEO of Farmcrowdy. Farmcrowdy is the pioneer of digital agriculture in Nigeria and has empowered over 12,000 farmers across 14 states in Nigeria. With farm sponsors in Nigeria and across the diaspora, Farmcrowdy is effectively growing a community model that is set to continue the empowerment of local farmers and facilitate food production in Nigeria and eventually across Africa. “Techstars has been deeply impressed by Farmcrowdy’s mission to end poverty in Africa one farmer at a time since we first invested in the company in 2017 as part of Techstars Atlanta in partnership with Cox Enterprises. We are excited about the continued growth of the Farmcrowdy platform and thrilled to continue our support of the business with the most recent financing,” said Cody Simms, a Partner at Techstars who did a follow-on investment in this round of funding after their previous investment. For almost two and a half years, Farmcrowdy continues to inspire a renewed interest in farming across generations. Following this investment, Farmcrowdy is expected to expand to other African countries.