Kenya is planning to register and tax homes listed on online marketplace and hospitality service platform, Airbnb by July. This was made known recently by Kenya’s Tourism Fund CEO, Joseph Cherutoi. This comes six months after Tanzania’s government announced that it was going to licence and Tax Airbnb operators in the country. “We will arrange a meeting and write an MoU. After that, once Airbnb collects their commission (3 percent), they will also collect the levy on our behalf. We are also going to work with the Kenya Revenue Authority,” Cherutoi said on plans to tax Airbnbs in Kenya. Over the years, hotels have enjoyed the huge benefits that come with tourism growth but that has been disrupted by the emergence of Airbnb. Hotels now have to share their customers with Airbnb operators. It has also given Kenyans the opportunity to get more income as they now monetise spare rooms in their houses. Between January and September 2018,  Kenya had 6,500 Airbnb listings which earned Sh510 million up from Sh390 million in 2017. The average income for an Airbnb host in Kenya is under $1,000 per annum, while it is $2,000 in South Africa and $1,000 in Morocco. According to Airbnb, since the founding of the company in 2008, Airbnb hosts across Africa have earned more than $400 million in direct income from renting out their properties. So far, more than 3.5 million guests have arrived at listings on Airbnb across Africa to date and there are over 130,000 Airbnb listings across Africa, with South Africa constituting the bulk of the business, followed by Morocco, Kenya and Egypt. As of July 2018,  Nigeria had the highest growth in Airbnb booking at 213 percent followed by Ghana and Mozambique which both recorded 141 percent and 136 percent growth respectively.  Rwanda recorded a 73 percent growth in Airbnb bookings which is the highest in East Africa while Kenya recorded 68 percent growth. The success of Airbnb in the continent can be largely attributed to the growth of tourism in Africa. Tourism is one of the continent’s fastest-growing sectors and it contributed nearly $178 billion to Africa’s Gross Domestic Product in 2017, according to the latest figures from the World Travel and Tourism Council. The Airbnb story Airbnb started in 2007 in  San Francisco by two roommates  Joe Gebbia and Brian Chesky who were struggling to pay their rent and were also looking for extra cash. During one of the weekends, hotels were fully booked due to a design conference coming to San Francisco, so they came up with the idea of renting out three airbeds on their living room floor and cooking their guests breakfast at $80 per night. The next day, they created a website, airbedandbreakfast.com  but they had issues with the website because it had just two users and then in 2008 they launched again when Barack Obama was due to speak in Denver at the Democratic National Convention which was expected to have over 80,000 people in attendance. In early 2009, they received $20,000 funding from an angel investor, Paul Graham, the co-founder of Y Combinator, which led to a further $600,000 from venture capitalists. Early on, the team realised they had to handle payments, ‘otherwise it was just a messaging site,’ and charged up to 15 percent of the booking (the host pays three percent and the traveller between six and 12 percent). By April, they were making enough to pay living expenses. In November 2010, they raised another $7.2 million from a venture capitalist. In May 2011, actor Ashton Kutcher invested a ‘significant amount’ and now sits on the company’s board as a strategic adviser. Then in July 2011, the company received a further $112 million in venture funding and was reportedly valued behind the scenes at $1.3 billion. These findings meant they could hire more staff (they now employ about 500 worldwide) and move into an office. Today, meetings are held in mock-up rooms of the most popular Airbnb listings dotted around its headquarters.  The company is now valued at $30 billion with three million listings in more than 65,000 cities around the world. Despite recording successful growth, Airbnb continues to face several challenges in the countries where they operate which include taxation,  business registration and horror stories of when things went wrong. It is worthy to note that regulations on Airbnb vary. Some countries have laws against individuals sub-letting their apartments for any period of time, while in some countries, there are licenses and registrations to fill before they are allowed to sublet their apartments to Airbnb. In 2016, the Ministry of Treasury in Spain sent letters to owners of properties that didn’t declare their earnings from subletting for Airbnb. They were asked to declare and pay taxes on them or face prosecution. The Australian government also did the same in 2016, requesting for the auditing of accounts of owners of Australian properties listed on Airbnb. In 2018, Morroco also said that Airbnb will start paying tax from 2019 in order to bridge a legal void that has hurt over 3,800 hotels and travel agencies operating in Morocco.