When Cyclone Idai left Mozambique after 19 people were killed, it headed into eastern Zimbabwe and has now led to 31 deaths, with at least 40 others missing. Before Idai, landfall on Thursday, flooding across the rest of Mozambique had already killed nearly 70 people. According to the United Nations, Cyclone Idai has affected more than 1.5 million people in three southern African countries, including Malawi. Zimbabwe’s Ministry of Information announced the death toll on Twitter while urging people affected by the storm to await rescue. “Government wishes to discourage any efforts to cross flooded rivers by individuals. We are receiving tragic reports of some  people being swept away. We urge patience as rescue is on its way. Let us not have avoidable loss of human life. We have lost 31 Zimbabweans to Cyclone Idai.” Idai hit Mozambique, Thursday, with winds of up to 177km/h, cutting off more than 500,000 residents in the port city of Beira, the country’s fourth largest city. The storm was so bad that roads were flooded and the airport was shut down after the air traffic control tower, the navigation systems and the runways were damaged by the storm. Tracking the path of the storm, the American weather forecasting service AccuWeather had noted that flooding downpours will spread throughout the interior of central Mozambique and into eastern Zimbabwe from Friday into the weekend. According to AccuWeather, Idai barreled onshore north of Beira, Mozambique, with its strength equivalent to a Category 3 major hurricane in the Atlantic or eastern Pacific oceans. ZImbabwe’s Ministry of Information said that the Zimbabwean national army was leading rescue efforts but this is being done on land as weather conditions are too poor for flight. “The Army is moving in from Chipinge to rescue 197 pupils  from Charles Luwanga so they can take them to Mhandarume. This a very challenging operation as it’s being undertaken as a ground effort because of unsafe weather conditions for air efforts,” the ministry said. The disaster happens as Zimbabwe’s President Emmerson Mnangagwa visits the United Arab Emirate as the country strengthens its partnership with the Arab nation. “My thoughts & prayers are with all those affected by Cyclone Idai,” he wrote on Twitter. “Rescue operations are underway & we are grateful for the bravery of the men & women of the Zimbabwean armed forces who, along with our local & international partners, are participating in the urgent rescue efforts.”