Angola and the European Union (EU) has signed three new financing agreements worth €22 million ($24.82 million) in the areas of higher education, economic governance and dialogue facilities between the parties. The conventions fall within the 11th European Development Fund (EDF) and were signed on the sidelines of the 4th EU-Angola Joint Way Forward Ministerial Meeting, held in Angola’s capital, Luanda. For higher education, the European Union budgeted €13 million ($14.66 million) which will be implemented over five years. The aim is to encourage innovation and professional qualification that would increase employment and economic diversification in Angola. In Angola, the gross enrollment rate in primary education is 140 percent for both girls and boys combined. However, the primary net enrollment rate is 86 percent while the primary completion rate is 54 percent. Of the €22 million, €5 million was budgeted to be implemented over three years by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. The second convention entails support for economic governance, with a focus on budget transparency, the effectiveness of public expenditure and the creation of an effective system to combat illicit financial flows. The remaining €4 million is for a facilitation programme for EU-Angola dialogue, It is a key to accompany the partnership agreement, providing for studies and information sharing in areas such as security, economic growth and regional integration. Present at the signing ceremony was Angola’s Minister of Economy and Planning, Pedro Luís da Fonseca and the EU’s interim director for Central and Southern Africa, Francisca Di Mauro. This is not the first of such agreement Angola has signed with Europe.  Angola signed 13 cooperation agreements in criminal investigation; justice; teacher training; health; higher education; culture and environment; as well as tourism; science; technology and innovation with Portugal in 2018. Portugal’s President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa was also in Angola for five days from March 5 to strengthen cooperation in education; culture; economy and agriculture with the Southern African nation.