The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is appealing for $36.4 million for the next six months, to respond to the humanitarian needs of an estimated 1.85 million people affected by Cyclone Idai in Mozambique. The tropical cyclone stormed through Mozambique, Malawi and Zimbabwe, killing about 700 people in the three southern African countries, with Mozambique the hardest hit. “For IOM and the broader international community, this is a massive humanitarian emergency,” said IOM Director General António Vitorino. “The cyclone’s impact caused loss of life and left extensive destruction in its path.” The full impact on Mozambique — where the death toll stands at 446, with over 109,000 displaced — is expected to increase, because of widespread destruction to farmland and fisheries. This is expected to create food insecurity for the affected population over the coming months. “Given its devastating impact, Cyclone Idai could rank as the worst disaster to hit the region in decades,” Vitorino added. Last Friday, an IOM Level 3 Emergency was declared for Mozambique and $500,000 in emergency relief funds were released by the Organization. But IOM is appealing for $36.4 million as part of a broader Humanitarian Response Plan for Mozambique from the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), which was revised to include a $282 million appeal for flood response following Cyclone Idai. The UN’s Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) also allocated $20 million last Wednesday to ensure aid reaches those most affected. Surge teams have been deployed to the affected areas from around the world. There are 13 rapid response officers on the ground in Mozambique and Zimbabwe, and 27 more incoming for the three affected countries. These rapid responders will focus on emergency and cluster coordination; assessments; IOM’s Displacement Tracking Matrix (DTM); and more strengthening of government led efforts; among other key technical areas. IOM has also raised an alert about emerging health issues amongst the affected population. “During crises like Cyclone Idai, many people flee their homes, exacerbating the health risks,” said Katharina Schnoering, Chief of Mission for IOM Mozambique, the worst-affected country. “It is very important to ensure that people receiving treatment can continue to receive support, particularly those displaced and unable to access their homes and normal health services.” Already, the Mozambican government said it had confirmed the first five cases of cholera in the port city of Beira where Idai made a landfall on March 14.