Fifty-seven Africans from 12 countries lost their lives on Sunday when Ethiopian Airlines flight ET 302/10 March in schedule service from Addis Ababa to Nairobi was involved in an accident around Bishoftu (formerly known as Debre Zeit), located south east of Addis Ababa, shortly after taking off. The aircraft B-737-800MAX with registration number ET- AVJ took off at 08:38 am local time from Addis Ababa, Bole International Airport and lost contact at 08:44am. Ethiopian Airlines Group CEO Tewolde GebreMariam, who visited the crash site confirmed that there were no survivors in the crash involving 149 passengers and 8 crew members.  He expressed deep regrets and “his profound sympathy and condolences to the families and loved ones of passengers and crew who lost their lives in this tragic accident”. A breakdown of the nationalities of the victims showed that 32 Kenyans were involved. Nine Ethiopians, Six Egyptians, two Moroccans and one Nigerian also lost their lives. There was also one victim each from Djibouti, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sudan Somalia, Togo and Uganda. The breakdown also showed victims from Canada, Israel, Russia, Italy and Spain. Following the crash, a statement by Ethiopian says the airline has teamed up with all stakeholders concerned to conduct forensic investigations and identify the identities of the victims. “A committee comprising of Ethiopian Airlines, Ethiopian Civil Aviation Authority, and Ethiopian Transport Authority has been set up to carry out the investigations. Ethiopian Airlines has already contacted the families of the victims to inform them of the tragic accident.” “Investigation will be carried out to determine the cause of the accident, in collaboration with all stakeholders including the aircraft manufacturer Boeing, Ethiopian Civil Aviation Authority and other international entities,” the airline stated. Meanwhile, Boeing, the manufacturer of the ill-fated aircraft, has extended sympathy to the families and loved ones of the crash victims and expressed readiness to support the Ethiopian Airlines team. “A Boeing technical team will be travelling to the crash site to provide technical assistance under the direction of the Ethiopia Accident Investigation Bureau and U.S. National Transportation Safety Board,” the company said. The crash of the new Boeing 737 MAX 8 is the second in five months. Last October, a Boeing 737 MAX 8 Lion Air flight with 189 people on board crashed 13 minutes after take off. The similarities between the two flights and the fact that both Ethiopian and Lion Air have strong safety records, raises concerns. Should investigations show similarities in the cause of the two accidents, Boeing may be forced to ground the MAX 8. If it doesn’t after investigations indict it, governments would. Last September, Nigeria’s Air Peace announced it has added 10 Boeing 737 MAX 8 airplanes to its fleet. However, it has not taken delivery of any. The company is expected to be watching the current situation closely as investigations continue.