Flights at Kenya’s main international airport, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) have resumed after a boycott by aviation workers. It would be recalled that yesterday, activities at JKIA were disrupted, due to protest by aviation workers who are members of the Kenya Aviation Workers Union (KAWU). The workers protested against unfair staff hiring, poor remuneration and the proposed takeover of the airport by the national carrier, Kenya Airways (KQ). This led to several cancellation and delay of flights. The situation was brought to normalcy after anti-riot police were deployed to the airport to chase the protesters out and arrested their leaders. The whole issue started when it was reported that loss-making Kenya Airways wants to emulate successful airlines such as Ethiopian by paying the airport authority concession fees and running profitable services such as catering, fuel distribution, cargo and ground services facilities and maintenance by merging with Kenya Airports Authority but this did not go down well with its staff and Kenyans. According to a statement released on March 4, KAWU said that “it is totally wrong, and even criminal, to imagine KQ taking over JKIA.” The Union has also questioned how KQ’s chief executive Sebastian Mikosz, board chairman Michael Joseph and a team of managers and consultants were allegedly paid a total of  Ksh1.3 billion ($13 million) in 18 months. The workers accused Sebastine of failing to turn around Kenya Airways. They also said that Joseph is the only board chairman in the country that earns Ksh 3 million ($30,000) monthly compared to his predecessor who was earning Ksh 300,000 ($3000)  monthly. Meanwhile, Members of Transport Committee in Kenya’s Parliament  have vowed that no “marriage” will take place between Kenya Airways and Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) under their watch. JKIA is one of the busiest airports in Africa. As at November 2018, an estimated 5.89 million international travellers had passed through JKIA in the year, compared with 5.79 million passengers in the full year 2017. JKIA handles operations of several airlines which includes British Airways, Ethiopian Airlines, Emirates, RwandAir, South African Airways and Turkish Airlines.