Growing up in Nigeria, my father used to say that none of his kids would attend a private institution because he believed that government institutions, any day and anytime, ranked better than private institutions in the quality of education they provide. Although privately-owned schools were at the time, gaining huge popularity and offering mouth-watering incentives, but my father was not alone in his strong faith in government institutions. Those years, students in public schools proudly top national competitions and guardians anxiously waited for the results of national common entrance exams of their wards into federal government colleges popularly known as unity schools. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said in 2019 of government schools as people are increasingly losing faith in them and favouring their privately-owned counterparts. Despite evidence showing that private schools are not better at educating pupils/students, it remains conventional wisdom in many parts of the world that private schools are better, and Nigeria is no different. The debate between the comparison of private and government educational institutes has been an ongoing one and would continue for a very long time. Generally, people prefer private schools over government ones simply because the government schools, especially in Nigeria, have remained static, poorly invested in, lack infrastructure and many are plagued with absenteeism. Little wonder Nigeria has the largest number of out-of-school children in the world; over 13 million. This is because private schools which offer a semblance of quality usually have better infrastructural facilities and up-to-date technology when compared with government schools and even when the teachers in a private school may not be qualified as a teacher in government school people still favour it to the public counterparts. Surprisingly, this mentality has been so engraved in people’s minds that a visibly dilapidated building begging to be renovated or even demolished is home to a six-class primary school filled with pupils. Nigeria is one of those countries that does not have an educational security system in place where basic education is taken care of by the government, a system in which all children irrespective of their social position in society attend the same school for free even when the constitution explicitly said so. Section 18 (1) of the Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution as amended states that government shall direct its policy towards ensuring that there are equal and adequate educational opportunities at all levels. Section 18(3) notes that government shall strive to eradicate illiteracy; and to this end Government shall as and when practicable provide (a) free, compulsory and universal primary education; (b) free secondary education; (c) free university education; and (d) free adult literacy programme. These rights are hardly enforced, and many are still required to pay for their education. Unsurprisingly, 72 percent of the poorest children are out of school since they cannot afford education. Even those that can afford it have lost faith in the government institutions. On March 12, 2019, the video of a little girl named Success went viral as she protested being sent home from school because her parents had failed to pay her school fees. It was discovered that Success attends a government school, Okotie Eboh 1 Primary School in Sapele Delta state. The school is in a deplorable state, but luckily the children had desks to sit on. Quite alright there are better government schools in Nigeria but they are grossly underfunded and even the wealth of Knowledge from experienced teachers are stifled under this underfunding, making people tilt towards the private sector. A day before Success’s video went viral, on March 13, 2019, an old three-story building in the Lagos Island of Nigeria’s commercial hub, Lagos State, collapsed and a children’s school occupied the top floors of the building. According to the Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Jide Idris, 20 victims were brought in dead to the General Hospital in Lagos. The willingness of parents and guardians to send their wards to such a school is proof that a school lacking proper structure, playground and even qualified teachers are favoured over government/public ones. Restoring faith in
Public institutions Placing a ban on private schools is not the answer and building more public institutions is also not the answer, as evidence show that many Nigerian children do not learn much even when they are in school. However, there is a need to restructure the education system to meet the present and future needs of the pupils/students and the first place to state is the infrastructure/facilities. There is more to infrastructure than a beautifully painted building. In Nigeria, many public school buildings are impressive while others are mediocre. The same is true of private schools. However, many public schools lack adequate facilities like a fully equipped science laboratory or library. In Nigeria, government schools in urban areas have more amenities than those in villages and this should not be so as every government institution should be adequately equipped regardless of location, so that they are more attractive than their private counterparts. Education should be free as education and poverty are closely linked. Even if every aspect of education cannot be paid for by the government, books and other amenities required should be subsidized and affordable for all, even those living below a dollar a day. Private schools should be heavily taxed and added to the funds allocated for public education and more importantly, a student should not have to walk up to a mile to school. Most public schools are overcrowded. In unity schools, a junior secondary one class (JSS1) would have 10 arms, A-J excluding F and each arm would have over 50 students. This should not be the case as individual attention is a key point in education and a student/teacher ratio of 15:1 is required to better achieve individual attention. Many private schools boast class sizes of 10-15 students with 7:1 student-teacher ratio but the same cannot be said of public schools. Something needs to be done to change this. The bigger the bureaucracy, the harder it is to get decisions made at all, much less get them made quickly and the public education system is notorious for having antiquated work rules and bloated bureaucracies. Bureaucracies are not by nature bad, but they are not built for on the spot decision making either. Worse, public parastatals are known for tight bureaucracies and the process of getting things done. Even when it comes to school admission or uniform collection, the processes are usually much and tiring. Unqualified/underqualified teachers should not be employed in schools. As much as there is a need to restructure the education system, there is even a greater need to prepare the teachers and educators. Even with their qualifications, workshops that engage in practical methods of learning need to be inculcated into these educators. Also, public school systems need to adopt project-based learning processes that can thrive and be accessed by all. Secondly, teacher salaries can make a difference in the quality of teachers. Public sector teachers are not properly paid, and low starting salaries/ small annual salaries increase low teacher enthusiasm and commitment to work. Public schools learning curricula should be aligned with market demand for skills; it should be both job-specific and generic, encompassing communication skills, interpersonal skills (guide others, resolve conflict and negotiate, advocate and influence, cooperate with others) problem-solving and project management. There is also the need to adopt alternative learning routes, allowing for experimentation with new techniques. That way, school is enjoyable, practical and the institutional inertia which has created roadblocks for more than half of Nigeria’s talent would be prevented. Studies by the World Economic Forum suggest that 65 percent of children entering primary school today would be faced with jobs that their education would have failed to prepare them for, exacerbating the skills gaps and unemployment problems in the future workforce.