After Adewale graduated from a Nigerian Polytechnic in 1999, aged 26, he moved to Lagos in search of a job. By 2003, he had started a bus service, plying the Oshodi-Yaba route in Nigeria’s commercial capital, having worked briefly at a publishing company, the only employment he had in three years. “I was making a lot of money and by 2010, I had bought my own bus. I moved to my own house in Ikotun in 2015. I have a few plots of land in Oyo State where I grew up. But what happens when I stop working?” Adewale asked me during a friendly chat that started after someone from a Nigerian insurance company failed to convince him to open an Individual Savings and Protection Plan. He preferred the daily contributions with a group of friends because he said the plan the insurance company agent introduced to him was “not fit for purpose”. “If I’m putting any money away, I want it as pension. I want a kind of government-backed plan that I can rely on when I become too old to drive around Lagos,” Adewale said. On Thursday, Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari launched a Micro Pension Scheme, an initiative of the National Pension Commission (PenCom), the pension sector regulator in the country. The scheme is aimed at providing pension services to workers like Adewale. The Nigerian informal sector constitutes an estimated 69 million workers, representing about 88 percent of the Nigerian workforce without pensions and safety nets for their old age. The situation is the same throughout Africa and in most developing economies where the lack of appropriate pension arrangements can push informal sector participants into poverty post-retirement, especially in countries without social safety nets for the aged. Research shows that micro-pension schemes insulate low-income earners against poverty in old age. According to a 2009 OECD paper (pdf) on Insurance and Private Pensions authored by Fiona Stewart Juan Yermo, pensions reduce the poverty gap ratio by 13 percent in South Africa and increase the income of the poorest 5 percent of the population by 50 percent. Also, families receiving a pension in the country are 11 percent less likely to be poor. Due to the perceived advantages of micro-pension in Nigeria where informal employment is increasing and many in formal employment are hired in consultancy roles that deny them of pension benefits, PenCom has a goal of covering 30 million people in the informal sector under its Micro Pension Plan (MPP) by 2024. However, with the disposition of several Nigerians to saving for old age, PenCom has its work cut out. As at 2017, Nigeria’s statistics bureau put the percentage of workers with retirement savings accounts at 10.9. Studies in other parts of Africa show a similar trend. Making Access Possible (MAP) research by Cenfri, UNCDF and FinMark Trust on the financial sector in developing countries showed that 12 percent of adults in Madagascar invest in a home or save for old age. In the DRC, about 6 percent of adults save for old age. In Zambia, less than 10 percent of adults save for old age. In Nigeria, how does PenCom encourage those who have little to spend today to save for tomorrow? Therefore, the broad target of micro-pension to cover not just low income earners, but also self-employed professionals, entertainers, lawyers, doctors, artisans, casual workers etc., who are not currently covered under the existing pension scheme in the country, will ensure the success of the MPP.  However, workers easiest to reach should be targeted first, especially the excluded, formally employed, higher-income adults, who work (usually as consultants/contract staff) in multinationals, the financial services industry and several other well-paying industries.