Kenya is negotiating with China for an additional loan worth over Sh368 billion ($3.65 billion) to complete the third phase of the standard gauge railway (SGR). According to Kenya Railways Acting Director Philip Mahinga, the corporation is also holding talks to finance a system to ensure passengers, goods and equipment are secure as they snake through sparsely populated regions in its 974-kilometre journey from Mombasa to Malaba in Busia County. “The movement of trains from Mombasa to western Kenya needs to be secure from terrorists and other challenges. We ask the Chinese government to support us in this area, Mahinga noted. “We all know that the first phase of SGR from Mombasa to Nairobi cost Sh327 billion and the second phase Sh150 billion. For phase 2B, negotiations between the two governments are on so I will not give any figure at the moment,” said Mahinga. Although negotiations are still ongoing and it is unclear how much it will cost to secure the railway, the concluded amount would be in form of concessional and hard loans and the full details would be given during the official opening of the Naivasha terminal in May. Right now, sources say the interim amount is $3.65 billion. The terms of repayment have also been a subject of debate following a report by  Kenya’s Auditor General Edward noting that Kenya might lose its principal seaport in Mombasa to China if the East African country defaults on the loan it took to build the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR). Important national assets like ports and mineral resources are used as collateral to get loans from China. According to reports, Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) was used as collateral for the loan that funded the SGR. KPA was referred to as the borrower in the agreement with China’s Exim Bank, the bank China has been using to fund the SGR since 2013. Meaning that any sovereign immunity that might stop China from taking an action in case of default has been waived. “The SGR railway from Mombasa to Nairobi earned $100 million in the 2017/18 financial year and has created more than 50,000 jobs locally and boosted Kenya’s economic growth by 1.5 percent,” China’s Chargé d’affaires Li Xuhang noted.