Military involvement in leadership is still prominent in Africa where the Algerian army chief of staff Ahmed Gaid Salah this week called for constitutional removal of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika after more than five weeks of mass protests against his rule. While it may seem like a concession to the protesters, considering Bouteflika’s influence over the past decades, it may also be the army’s way of reclaiming its former place as principal power broker in the Algerian political system, which Bouteflika neutralised. But Algerians do not seem to care yet, so long their combined effort takes the 82-year-old off the seat he has occupied since 1999. While more than a million protesters march for emancipation, about three million people are bearing the brunt of the actions of many around the world, with global warming increasing the incidence of natural disasters like Cyclone Idai, which killed close to 700 people in Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi, rendering thousands homeless. Survivors are also battling with cholera, especially in Mozambique. While several organisations and countries are lending a hand to manage the humanitarian crisis caused by Idai in southern Africa, Ethiopia is trying to heal following the March 10 crash of Ethiopian Airlines flight ET302 which led to the death of the 157 people on board. Initial findings from from the plan’s flight data showed that stall-prevention system on the Boeing Co. 737 Max jet automatically switched on before the plane crashed, according to the Wall Street Journal, almost proving that the same system malfunctioned in both the Ethiopian Airlines flight and the Lion Air crash in Indonesia last October. Boeing on Wednesday announced its fix to the Maneuvering Characteristics Augmentation System (MCAS) which is suspected to have caused both crashes. But airline regulators around the world will have to sign off on the changes before the 737 MAX 8, which was grounded following the Ethiopian Airline plane crash, can return to the air. Boeing will also have to contend with lawsuits, including one from the family of a Rwandan, who was killed in the Ethiopian crash. Although Kenya Airways does not plan to cancel its order of Boeing’s 737 MAX planes, it has entered into discussions with Airbus SE to acquire an unspecified number of planes, as it seeks to add 50 airliners to its fleet to enable it remain competitive. The airline, which is grappling with debt of over Sh200 billion wants to raise revenue by more than 10 percent in 2019. But revenue projections aren’t always realistic, like civic organisation BudgIT pointed out about Nigeria’s 2019 budget. The Nigerian government’s projected revenue for 2019 is N6.97 trillion. “That’s highly ambitious,” claims BudgIT. Why? The government’s total revenue in 2017 was N2.65 trillion, and N2.8 trillion as at third quarter of 2018. But a country can dream. Dreams are valid, whether from the Nigerian government or from co-founders of Lyft whose company despite loss-making debuted on the public market at $87.24 a share. 