Driving slowly on Africa’s second longest bridge in Nigeria’s most populous city, Lagos, was an investment banker, Olaniyi Fajuyi sleeping  behind his wheels. Little did other drivers know that Fajuyi had dozed off until their persistent honking jolted him from his sleep. This was 5 a.m. on a Monday morning and Fajuyi’s situation is far from a rare occurrence in Lagos. Worse, residents of the city state, known as Lagosians, see waking up earlier than their counterparts in other parts of Nigeria as a thing of pride; a symbol of hard work of some sort, although it started with the need to beat the morning rush and get to work on time. About eight decades ago, people slept around seven hours and 54 minutes each night. These days, people are getting less sleep. South Africans sleep close to seven hours each night;  Americans sleep for six hours and 18 minutes a night. For the Japanese, who are obsessed with being on time, they barely get six hours and 12 minutes of sleep while in Nigeria, the average sleep time is between six to seven hours per night. However, these sleeping hours differ for Nigerians residing in the commercial hub of the country, Lagos, as many do not get past four hours of sleep and they brag about it and wear their ability to function on very little sleep as a badge of honour. According to data from the World Health Organization, the average life expectancy of a Nigerian is around 54 years five months, with men living an average of 53 years seven months and women living an average of 55 years four months. In addition to several other factors reducing the life slan of Nigerians, especially those who live and work in Lagos, sleep deprivation is a major challenge. In Lagos, most commuters spend about six to eight hours daily in traffic jams, an average of 30 hours in traffic weekly or the equivalent of 75 percent of a week’s total working hours, commuting data from Lagos Transport Information System (LATIS) shows. People wake up daily at 4 a.m. and sometimes do not get back home till 11 p.m., that is a minimum of four hours of daily sleep. A University of Washington Business professor, Christopher Barnes, investigated the lost productivity caused by poor sleep and what he called Sleepy Monday. On Sleepy Monday, people sleep, on average, forty minutes less than they do on a regular night and while forty minutes might seem like an insignificant amount of time the effects are overwhelming. On Sleepy Mondays, slightly sleep-deprived judges ruled harsher sentences than any other Mondays in the year. These sentences tend to be about five percent longer than the average and this is not peculiar to judges or Mondays as sleep-deprived people are more likely to interpret stimuli in a negative manner and they are less able to regulate their negative emotions. A lack of sleep at night can make you cranky the next day, little wonder Lagosians who are in a constant state of sleep deprivation are very impatient and cranky, especially on the roads. Chronic lack of sleep can lead to mood disorder insomnia and people who constantly lack sleep are five times more likely to develop depression. In addition, there is a higher chance of developing anxiety or panic disorders when sleep-deprived, as good sleep can improve concentration and productivity. Poor sleep is strongly linked to weight gain and studies show that sleep-deprived individuals have a
bigger appetite and tend to eat more calories
as sleep affects glucose metabolism and puts a person at risk of type 2 diabetes.
A study done on healthy
young men discovered that restricting sleep to four hours per night for six
nights in a row caused symptoms of prediabetes. Imagine what it does to
Lagosians who do it routinely. When people are bragging about how hard they work, they tend to reference their short sleeping hours. However, if there is one thing we have learned it’s that a lack of sleep hampers productivity. Even Bill Clinton in 2008 said on CNN, “Most of the mistakes I made, I made when I was too tired because I tried too hard and worked too hard. You make better decisions when you’re not too tired.” To avoid death by overwork, it is important to get the required hours of sleep and more importantly being sleep-deprived should not be a thing of pride.