Sudan which has been suffering from chronic hard currency shortages and soaring inflation since 2012 signed deals for loans worth $300 million with regional Arab Funds, authorities said on Saturday, hours before hundreds of Sudanese took part in anti-government protests in the capital Khartoum and other cities on Sunday. Dozens of families also demonstrated in front of the headquarters of the National Intelligence and Security Service in Khartoum, calling for the release of detained relatives, activists who spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing for their safety, told Arab News. The economic and political crisis-stricken country agreed to a $230 million loan with the Abu Dhabi-based Arab Monetary Fund to support its balance of payments. The Northern African country also signed a deal for a second loan worth $70 million with the Arab Trade Financing Program, whose shareholders include the Arab Monetary Fund. Inflation has soared in the country since 2012, but things got worse in 2018 when Sudan implemented a set of austerity measures like President Omar Al Bashir reshuffling his cabinet and launching a war on corruption to cut government spending. When prices skyrocketed to the point that Sudanese could no longer afford bread and other commodities, frequent demonstrations started across the country with protesters calling for an end to Bashir’s three-decade rule. The government has run up enormous budget deficits by subsidizing the cost of fuel, bread and other products. To cover this deficit, it has expanded the money supply.  According to official figures, The expansion of money supply pushed inflation to more than 70 percent in 2018, before dropping to under 50 percent in January and February. Meanwhile, a former banker and civil society activist, Ismail Mohamed noted that the economic problems in Sudan are the result of an unclear political vision as the imbalances facing the Sudanese economy are structural, leading to poor economic infrastructure and the economy’s inability to absorb any shocks. Economists and bankers have repeatedly asked the government to implement radical reforms or seek a bailout from friendly nations to pull its economy out of the downward spiral and since the government has struggled to raise new funds from abroad to keep the economy afloat it has turned to the Arab Monetary Funds, after all, Sudanese Arabs are the majority population of Sudan.