Ethiopia has experienced an impressive economic growth over the past decade, averaging about 10 percent a year. Ratings agency Moody’s expects this to continue over the next few years, backed by strong investment in infrastructure, energy and manufacturing, as well as low debt-servicing costs that have bolstered the sovereign’s fiscal position. Thus, the agency has put Ethiopia’s credit profile at B1 stable. “Ethiopia’s economy has grown rapidly over the last decade we expect it to remain at around 8 percent over the next few years,” said Kelvin Dalrymple, a Moody’s Vice President – Senior Credit Officer, who co-authored the annual credit analysis of the Government of Ethiopia. The credit analysis elaborates on Ethiopia’s credit profile in terms of economic strength, institutional strength, fiscal strength and susceptibility to event risk, which are the four main analytic factors in Moody’s Sovereign Bond Rating methodology. “In addition to these strong fundamentals, the authorities’ economic diversification efforts further support the sovereign’s credit profile,” Dalrymple added. Since Abiy Ahmed became prime minister last year, Ethiopia has introduced reforms that will further ensure economic growth, with Moody’s expecting progress in large infrastructure projects and the government’s economic diversification efforts towards light manufacturing, which has been boosted by the country’s commitment to developing industrial parks. The ratings agency expects this to boost overall productivity and keep economic growth in Ethiopia elevated. “A rapid expansion in the banking sector as well as higher output in the agricultural sector will further support this growth momentum,” Moody’s added. “The elevated contribution to growth from the both public and private construction sectors highlight the economy’s reliance on large infrastructure projects. The country’s structural trade deficit means that infrastructure is financed to a large extent by foreign capital.” However, Ethiopia’s reliance on foreign capital has declined over the past few years as domestic savings rate grows, with a modest decline in the investment rate. As large infrastructure projects, such as the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam,  reach completion, Moody’s expects trade deficit in Ethiopia will narrow further in the long term, which would in turn support the development of the nascent manufacturing sector, among others. “With improvements in infrastructure and the government’s aim towards privatization, increased investment opportunities in Ethiopia will address supply-side bottlenecks and boost productivity growth,” Moody’s notes. Already, Ethiopia is making progress in diversifying its economy away from commodity exports, with more focus on mining and manufacturing. This is part of the government’s effort to reduce the economy’s vulnerability to weather and global market conditions. Ethiopia is highly vulnerable to weather cycles and volatility in coffee and gold prices. However, the country’s diversification efforts has seen the share of agriculture in gross value added (GVA) decline to about 30 percent in 2018 from close to 50 percent in 2008, while the share of the construction sector has increased to above 20 percent from around 5 percent over the same time frame. “As well as external vulnerability risks, the country’s key credit challenges include geopolitical risk, continued social unrest and the vulnerability of its relatively small economy to weather cycles and volatility in coffee and gold prices,” notes Dalrymple. Hence, successful export diversification, the smooth and timely completion of infrastructure programmes and improved business conditions would all be credit positive for Ethiopia, Moody’s notes. A structural reduction of external vulnerabilities leading to a steady accumulation of foreign exchange reserves and a cessation of domestic and regional geopolitical tensions would also be positive for Ethiopia’s credit profile. However, an acceleration in the build-up of external debt without an increase in potential growth and hard currency generation capacity, will exert downward rating pressure. Major delays or interruptions in key infrastructure projects or a material reduction in foreign investments stemming from domestic political unrest would also be credit negative for Ethiopia.