Calls for a more gender-balanced world have increased in recent times, with women who were able to succeed despite the constraints of a society that gave undue privilege to men, showing everyone how much more could be achieved in a gender-balanced world. Jody Ike Samuels is one of the women who now thrive in parts of society committed to creating equal opportunities for all, regardless of gender. Until her recent move to London as Innovation Lead in Africa for Diageo, the Nigerian was Marketing & Innovation Director at Guinness Nigeria PLC.  In this interview with TheNerve Africa, Jody speaks about innovation and the role of women in building solutions in Africa. She also sends out a personal message to women as the world celebrates the International Women’s Day. The opportunity to live and work in another culture and understand different challenges, beliefs and ways of life triggers a new level of understanding and empathy that has really helped me to be a better business person and innovator. Innovation is in built at Diageo. We have an innovation team hard at work in every part of the world and we know that to survive and develop innovation will get us there. We look to recruit new consumers and re-recruit old consumers to our brands through innovation. This is both creating new and fresh variants of our well established brands as well as entirely new to world brands meeting new needs, tastes or occasions. It has helped us remain competitive as it is all about asking the business three keys questions – What does the consumer want? Why should the consumer care? What does this mean for our business? Innovation forces you to stay close to the consumer, putting them at the heart of the business, it forces you to stay alert, inquisitive and creative– looking out for the iconic brands we are so famous for as well as creating the next generation of products and brands. Women have a huge role to play in building the solutions to many challenges in our African markets. At Diageo we know that simply having more inclusive and diverse teams and leadership are part of this as well as creating the right roles and opportunities to facilitate this progress for women.  We are fortunate to have strong female leaders in our Africa markets and also as key business partners in the regions. We will continually strive to do more to further work in our own operations as well as in our marketing initiatives.  For example, ensuring we have more female directors, marketing leaders, more female inclusive marketing efforts which look to balance out some of the gender stereotypes – like our Made of More Guinness campaigns or the latest J&B Hive campaign in South Africa written, shot and directed by a woman. As with many places the world over African markets are evolving – some faster than others. We are on a journey and certainly Diageo through its many diverse businesses in Africa is evolving as well. We can proudly say there are current and future female leaders in all areas of our business; Marketing & Innovation, Commercial, Supply Chain, Human Resources and General Management, just to name a few areas. Wherever we are, we know that we do better with more balance and a workforce that reflects our consumer base. Whether this is in our breweries and distilleries, our offices or amongst our sales force out in the market working with consumers and partners. Diageo has been committed to empowering female leaders within the African business, and ensuring a stronger mix across the employee base. Three of our biggest business units in Africa are run by women. Jane Karuku – MD of our Kenyan business KBL, Helene Weesie MD of Serengeti Breweries our Tanzanian business and Hina Nagarjan who manages Diageo’s Emerging Markets in Africa – giving her oversight of Ghana, Ethiopia, Cameroon, Angola, Cote D’Ivoire and many more. Our efforts spread across marketing campaigns, brand design, employment and the workplace as well as our community projects. One of the more striking projects recently was commissioning CARE International to look into the situation for female farmers in Ethiopia and how we can look to integrate and support them more within the Diageo supply chain. As I say, building a diverse and inclusive environment is at the heart of Diageo – this goes well beyond celebrating our female talent and global events like International Women’s Day. This work is not just internal however, our commitment to gender balance and inclusivity in our marketing and brand promotion also forms part of this work. We have pioneered ad campaigns which look to inspiration females – like the Guinness Made of More / Made of Black campaigns celebrating Tabitha Wambui – Kenya’s first female FIFA accredited Football referee. As we look to have a positive impact through our operations, our brands and our employment our commitment to gender balance – extends into programmes and projects in the community arena where our Spirited Women’s Networks in each of our African markets not only work to support our talented female employees but invest in projects which will empower women and children in the community – whether that is vocational training and mentorship or sponsorship in local primary schools. Local raw material sourcing is integral to our African business. We aim to source 80 percent of our raw inputs by 2020 and at 79 percent already, we are well on course to achieve that goal. We have a network of over 80,000 small holder farmers on the continent and we are proud of the total value chain we create. Wherever we are in the world, we look to really localise our businesses and have a positive impact. Across Africa we are not so much a drinks business but a local manufacturer and supplier first. We are Guinness Ghana, Kenyan Breweries, Guinness Nigeria, with local shareholders and local supply footprints. We have a mixture of truly local brands, made locally with local ingredients. This builds employment and economic prosperity as we know that if the communities round us thrive we will. More recently we have created a new infrastructure – in both farming and drinks outlets in Kisumu – Kenya to work alongside a new brewery built there to produce a local Kenyan beer – Senator – which is an affordable entry level beer created in partnership with the Kenyan government to reduce illicit consumption. Embrace your power, stay focused and continually push to achieve your potential.  Always remember to bring other women along with you. 