The much-despised and financially crippled electronic tolling (e-toll) system of the South African National Roads Agency (SANRAL), has gotten a R5.7 billion ($398 million) bailout from South Africa Transport Department. “As a result of SANRAL’s toll network experiencing financial difficulties and to ensure that SANRAL complies with its payment terms to investors, as well as to maintain the toll network across the country, funds were transferred from the non-toll network to the toll network,” Transport Minister Dr Blade Nzimande said. According to a press statement, the transfer is a strategic intervention by the department of transport to deal with the non-payment by Gauteng road users of the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project (GFIP). This is because no additional funding could be sourced from National Treasury to cover the GFIP shortfall, the department had to reprioritise its mid-term spending, while the government consults all affected stakeholders on a permanent GFIP financing model. Department of Transport transfer funds to @SANRAL_za toll Road Network @DrBladeNzimande @SindiChikunga @GovernmentZA pic.twitter.com/lk3JTdspIS This comes months after it was reported that Gauteng’s e-tolls system was draining funds from the SANRAL. This did not go down well with South Africans who have always kicked against the system. Currently, the money that is supposed to be used for the maintenance of all roads in South Africa is now being used for the e-tolls. As part of SANRAL ’s  integrated report for the 2017/2018 financial year, SANRAL chairperson, Roshan Morar, confirmed that for the first time in the organisation’s history, it was ‘forced’ to divert funds from non-toll business to the toll road portfolio in order to keep the e-tolls system afloat. SANRAL is currently in this mess because the majority of Gauteng motorists defaulted on payments of the tolls, which has led to an outstanding debt of almost R11 billion. Apart from this debt, the government owes service providers and various stakeholders an estimated R67 billion ($4.68 million). In order to offset the loss incurred by the e-tolls system, SANRAL has repurposed R1.6 billion ($111.86 million). However, it is worthy to note that there have been calls from several public coalition, trade unions, law firms, churches and political parties to scrap the e-toll system. The ruling African National Congress (ANC) which was keen to scrap the e-tolls system have now seen the financial liability that is on ground. Hence, the Transport Minister, Blade Nzimande, made it clear that that e-tolls would  still remain until the main stakeholders could reach some sort of financial agreement.