China which was notoriously known for pollution has been cracking down on its pollution, with new green policies and plans to host the 2019 global World Environment Day celebrations with a theme of air pollution on June 5. Each year, about 7 million people globally die prematurely from air pollution, with about 4 million of these deaths occurring in Asia-Pacific.  Investigations show prior to the deliberate policies, China was the world’s biggest carbon emitter and 16 percent of China’s soil contains higher-than-permitted levels of pollution but with the country’s growing green energy sector, it has emerged as a climate leader. Even in Africa, air pollution still remains a major challenge. According to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, air pollution causes premature deaths of 712,000 Africans each year. In September 2017, researchers calculated the monetary cost of air pollution in Africa from both outdoor and indoor — $215 billion from outdoor pollution cost Africa $215 billion while indoor pollution cost $232 billion. The upcoming World Environment Day taking place across multiple cities in China, with Hangzhou in the province of Zhejiang hosting the main event, is urging governments, industries, communities, and individuals to come together to explore renewable energy and green technologies to improve air quality in cities and regions across the world. Presently, there has been an ongoing environmental forum in Kenya’s capital Nairobi to tackle critical issues such as stopping food waste and promoting the use of electric cars. China owns half the world’s electric vehicles and 99 percent of the world’s electric buses. By hosting World Environment Day 2019, China will showcase its innovation and progress toward a cleaner environment as well as sharing knowledge on creating a globally sustainable green environment. According to a United Nations report on air pollution in Asia and the Pacific, implementing 25 technology policies could see up to a 20 percent reduction in carbon dioxide and a 45 percent reduction in methane emissions globally, leading to a third of a degree Celsius saving of global warming.