There is a need to purge African leaders of the mentality
that a political position is for life and Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni is
one of such leaders. Election holds every five years in Uganda and Yoweri Museveni has won every election since democratic rule began in 1996. Previously, the 1995 Ugandan constitution provided for a two-term limit on the tenure of the president. However, the constitution has been revised to suit the sitting president and now the members of parliament from Uganda’s ruling party are supporting Museveni’s re-election bid. In 2017, Ugandan lawmakers agreed to table a bill to amend the constitution to remove the age limit for a presidential candidate over the age of 75 from running for the country’s highest office, a significant step towards securing a free run for Yoweri Museveni who has been president for more than 3 decades to run for another term in 2021. The decision to amend the constitution in 2017 led to disagreements, then fisticuffs, but finally the bill was passed. That was not the first time the constitution was changed to favour Museveni’s insatiable hunger for power as Uganda removed term limits in 2005 so the president who has been in power since 1986 can seek a third term. Although Museveni has not indicated interest in seeking another term, a victory at the 2021 presidential elections could extend Museveni’s rule to 40 years, one of the longest reigns in Africa. Should the president seek re-election as he is widely speculated to, he is likely to face competition from politician cum entertainer, Robert Kyagulanyi Ssentamu, known by the stage name Bobi Wine who noted he is “seriously considering” running for president. The Afro-beat pop superstar has already launched a movement to challenge Museveni’s 32-year-old rule in Uganda. Museveni has been accused of being a dictator who infringes on Ugandans’ fundamental rights, especially those who have been expressive or are considered threats to his government and Bobi wine has witnessed his fair share while he was campaigning for an opposition candidate in the country’s by-election; he was jailed for treason.