At the Milan Palace of Justice, yesterday, Richard Granier Deferre, former Nigerian oil minister Dan Etete’s adviser and former lawyer took the stands at the latest hearing in the trial of Shell and Eni for their OPL 245 deal. Together, they fraudulently acquired oil prospecting licence (OPL) 245, one of Africa’s most valuable oil blocks, which Eni says has an estimated recoverable reserves of 560 million barrels. Granier Deferre, which previously said he knew about illicit dealings over the oil block deal reversed his statements saying previous statements were made under “pressure”. “I’ve never had contact with Shell. I’ve never had relations with people from Eni in my entire career,” Granier-Deferre said. Shell had for years denied any wrongdoing until internal Shell emails seen by investigative jornalism network Finance Uncovered and Global Witness, an international NGO exposing corruption and environmental abuse, showed that senior Shell executives knew that the $1.1. billion that the company and Eni was paying in 2011, for the undeveloped deepwater plot would go to former Minister of Petroleum Dan Etete, a convicted money launderer who served under Nigerian dictator General Sanni Abacha. Etete had in 1998 allocated the oil block to Malabu Oil and Gas, a company he secretly owned. He was said to have paid a fifth of the cost of the block. Deferre, who was Etete’s adviser was alleged to have drawn a flowchart mapping out expected kickbacks to Shell and Eni managers. The two companies deny this. According to a Geneva attorney, who spoke to Italian journalit Luca Chianca, Granier-Deferre and Etete have been doing business together since the ‘90s. “They were previously involved in another international corruption case, the case of Bonny Island, also in Nigeria, in which Eni paid over 350 million in the United States to escape the legal proceedings and avoid a conviction,” the attorney said. “It was Granier-Deferre who introduced the Russian middleman Agaev to the Nigerian former minister Etete. That was the initial contact which gave rise to the entire negotiation for the OPL 245 oilfield,” the attorney added. While he said it seemed strange to everyone, including Etete, for a Russian to be taking part in the negotiation for the oil block, the attorney said the Russian had very strong ties to men from Shell. At the Milan Palace of Justice where oil campaigner for Global Witness Barnaby Pace was present, Granier-Deferre explained how he helped found the oil company Addax and between 2001 and 2010 was helping Etete, his friend, find a buyer for OPL 245. It is unclear whether he was referring to the Nigerian company that is now a subsidiary of China’s Sinopec Group, which was founded in 1994. At different times during his testimony, Granier Deferre said things different from his previous statement and conveniently denies what he had previously said or claim not to remember. However, Granier Deferre said he advised Etete on his contract with the middleman Ednan Agaev. He was also aware that Etete met someone from Eni in Milan, but he said he wasn’t at the meeting. “Granier Deferre is asked about his notes he took on the deal and the famous flowchart. He claims it was his dream of the deal, he say it shows Malabu opening two banks accounts to receive money from the deal and “management’ refers to Malabu not Eni or Shell,” Global Witness’s Pace reports. When asked about an email he admitted to have written about the arrival of a beautiful 6.1kg baby — when he was actually paid $6.1 million by Malabu –  Granier-Deferre said he was paid by a different company, Rocky Top which he didn’t know who owned. It was the same company that paid $10 million to former Minister of Justice of Nigeria Adebayo Ojo. Meanwhile, Dutch prosecutors said they had identified “prosecutable offences” by Shell around the OPL 245 deal. The oil company said it expects to face criminal charges in the Netherlands.