Across the world, there’s still a shocking lack of gender balance in appointment to executive roles, with women often overlooked despite their high levels of productivity, which according to Hive is higher than their male counterpart. The productivity platform anonymously sourced information from more than 3,000 working men and women, whose responses formed the content of the “State of the Workplace Report” on gender. According to Hive, both men and women only complete about 66 percent of their assigned work, despite women being assigned more work, getting 55 percent of all work, compared to 45 percent assigned to men. This shows that women work 10 percent harder than men. But Hive is not the first to find this out. A research by Masoom Ahmed of Glyndwr University, U.K., Fazluz Zaman of North South University, Dhaka, Bangladesh and Munshi Samaduzzaman, Assistant Professor, American International University-Bangladesh (AIUB) showed that the performance of female workers is better than that of male workers. Data from the Gartner Global Talent Monitor also reveals that effort among Australian female employees is almost 7 percent higher than their male colleagues. Considering how much women can contribute, it is important to ensure increased inclusion of women in labour. Research by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) shows that achieving parity in labour force participation rates between men and women in OECD countries could boost global GDP by 12 percent over the next 20 years. Hence, improved gender equality can boost economic growth, enhance productivity and also improve development outcomes for the next generation. Women should be fully integrated into the labour force and not discriminated against in wages. They should not be confined to part-time employment against their own wish or to low-paying jobs. Women should be allowed to thrive in any environment they wish to be without being discriminated against. Some women have thrived despite hindrances on their path, but a perfect world would be one where women are able to express themselves and contribute to the growth of society without being held down by stereotypes. The International Women’s Day, again, brings to fore the need to do everything possible to help forge a more gender-balanced world. As the world gets better at ensuring equal opportunities for all regardless of gender, women can also draw strength from other women who are doing well despite the challenges they have faced in a gender bias world. As they keep succeeding, they are working hard to ensure other women have better opportunities. “This is a big world, and it can be a difficult place for a woman to thrive, but it is also beautiful, filled with opportunities and the grace to be better,” says Funmilayo Falola, Head Brand & Marketing Communications at Nigeria’s Wema Bank Plc. in her message to women on International Women’s Day. “Because you are a woman, you are already full of grace. Let it carry you to greatness. Overthrow the stereotypes, chase the things you dream of and stand for the ones you believe in. Be the hero of your own story wherever the plot takes you. Your life is too important for you to spend it being irrelevant. Make it count.” Funmilayo says women are full of grace; Jody Ike Samuels, Innovation Lead Africa at Diageo says they are also very powerful. “Embrace your power,” she says. “Stay focused and continually push to achieve your potential.” And like she’s doing, Jody advises women to “always remember to bring other women along” with them. And to Nere Teriba, whose company Kian Smith Trade & Co. will launch Nigeria’s first gold refinery later this year, “women are complex and unique”. “Celebrating our achievements, differences, sufferings and joy,” the Kian Smith Vice Chairman says.