Ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) has confirmed Nigerian lender Access Bank Plc’s long-term local currency deposit rating of B2, long-term foreign currency deposit rating of B3, long-term issuer ratings of B2, local currency senior unsecured rating of B2, local currency national scale deposit ratings of A1.ng/NG-1, foreign currency national scale deposit ratings of A3.ng/NG-2 and national scale senior unsecured rating of A1.ng. Moody’s also affirmed Access Bank’s short-term bank deposit ratings, issuer ratings and counterparty risk ratings (CRR) at Not-prime. It also affirmed the short-term counterparty risk assessment (CRA) at Not-prime(cr). The outlook on the bank’s long-term deposit ratings, long-term issuer ratings and senior unsecured rating was changed to stable from ratings under review. According to Moody’s the ratings action was as a result of the announcement by Access on March 19 that it had assumed the assets, liabilities and undertakings of fellow Nigerian lender Diamond Bank. “The confirmation of Access’ long term deposit ratings with a stable outlook reflects Moody’s view that the deterioration in Access’ standalone credit profile, as a result of the merger, is balanced against our assumption of a high likelihood of Access being supported by the government of Nigeria (B2, stable), if needed,” noted Peter Mushangwe, banking analyst at Moody’s. Moody’s notes that following the merger, Access Bank’s market share increased to 14.8 percent in deposits from 10.3 percent (as of September 2018) and customer base increased to a combined 29 million, making the new entity the largest bank in Nigeria. The ratings agency also notes that despite the immediate improvement to Access Bank’s funding structure and the operational synergies that will support long-term profitability, there was a downgrade on the bank’s BCA due to Moody’s view that there will be a deterioration of the bank’s capital and asset risk metrics, following the merger with Diamond Bank. “In the near-term, Access’ tangible common equity (TCE) to risk-weighted assets ratio and nonperforming loans (NPL) ratio are expected to deteriorate from 14% and 5%, respectively as of September-end 2018, following the absorption of Diamond’s undercapitalized balance sheet and weak loan portfolio (Diamond NPLs were 42% as of September 2018). Moody’s, however, expects a gradual recovery in Access’ standalone credit profile over the next 2 years, including the normalization of the bank’s NPL metrics,” Mushangwe noted. Eventually, Access Bank’s funding profile will benefit from Diamond’s large retail deposit base. As of September 2018, about 75 percent of Diamond’s deposits were inexpensive retail deposits unlike Access Bank’s corporate deposits. Moody’s expects the cost of deposits for Access to reduce by 100-150 basis points in the next 18 months, which will support the bank’s net interest margins. In the long-term, however, a broadened product offering and efficiency savings relating to branch network, workforce, procurement and support and IT services is expected to enhance Access Bank’s profitability. Another top rating agency Standard and Poor’s (S&P), had Thursday affirmed the ‘B/B’ long- and short-term issuer credit ratings and ‘ngA/ngA-1’ Nigeria national scale ratings on Access Bank and assigned the bank a stable outlook. According to S&P, the affirmation of its ‘B/B’ ratings on Access Bank was based on its view that short-term acquisition risks were likely to be offset by the bank’s track record and orderly approach to mergers and acquisitions. However, the agency has discontinued its ratings on Diamond Bank. Moody’s said it will also discontinue its ratings on the bank soon.