The government of Kenya is looking for potential investors who are willing to inject cash into its troubled Cement maker, East Africa Portland Cement Company, to help revive the company. This was made known by Kenya’s Industrialisation Cabinet secretary Peter Munya. According to Munya, the giant manufacturer which requires a bailout of Sh15 billion ($150.02 million) has the potential to stand on its feet again with quick intervention. He also stated that selling part of the company’s land located at Athi River is not sufficient to generate the money required and potential investors can help in bailing out the company. This comes after the cement producer issued a profit warning indicating that its 2019 full-year earnings will be 25 percent lower, compared to the same period in 2018, as cement makers in East Africa continue to endure dwindling profits. The company, which has  KSh10.8 billion ($108 million) debt to settle, recently laid off over 620 workers who are in turn demanding for dues amounting to Sh1.5 billion ($15 million). Apart from East Africa Portland Cement Company, other manufacturers facing a similar issue include Athi River Mining, which is under the administration that is intended to shield it from creditors and offer it a lifeline. Kenya’s ARM Cement is expected to be sold to the highest bidder in an auction. Its administrators, PricewaterhouseCoopers, have received several initial bids from Nigeria’s Dangote Cement and Oman’s Raysut. Tanzanian cement firms are also reporting fall in their margins. Kenya’s Bamburi Cement also warned its investors that it expects the 2018 full-year earnings of the Group to decrease by more than 25 percent, compared with the year ended December 31, 2017. Cement demand in Kenya declined in 2017 and this significantly affected the industry. There is a slowdown in the construction of buildings and other infrastructure due to the government ’s decision to implement legislation that imposed controls on lending rates by banks. Owing to this, banks have turned their backs on lending to the real estate industry, with several projects now abandoned. A price war waged by new private companies such as National Cement, Mombasa Cement and Savannah Cement also affected the industry where supply now outstrips demand. In neighbouring Tanzania, the cement industry was disrupted by the entry of Dangote Cement, unsettling big players with its discount pricing. Rwanda is also getting a third local cement maker, Prime Cement after it signed a deal with a Danish company FL Smidth mid last year to build a $70 million plant. Imports from Asian countries have also led to an oversupply within the region which has restrained the market further.