Safaricom, owners of Africa’s first mobile money platform, M-Pesa announced plans to take its M-Pesa overdraft service, Fuliza to seven African countries. This is part of the firm’s move to tap into high demand for instant micro-loans across Africa. It is also an indication of the growing popularity of the mobile money service in other African markets. “There are seven countries in Africa that run M-Pesa and we’ll be looking into taking Fuliza to those markets first,” said Safaricom’s Chief Financial Services Officer Sitoyo Lopokoiyit. The telecommunications firm wants to introduce Fuliza in six other countries outside Kenya where Safaricom’s mobile money service M-Pesa is already available through its parent company, Vodacom. The countries are  Tanzania, Lesotho, Ghana, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Mozambique. Fuliza is an overdraft facility that allows M-Pesa users to borrow small, short-term loans. It was launched on January 5 through a partnership involving Safaricom and Kenyan banks Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA) and KCB Group.  The banks provide M-Pesa users with top-up loans whenever they need to make a transaction, but find they lack enough money in their mobile cash wallets. Borrowers in Kenya can take loans of up to Sh70,000 that can be used to buy goods or pay bills. The money is also transferrable to other mobile subscribers. According to HapaKenya, once a borrower signs up for the service, the borrower will receive a confirmation message that has the overdraft limit.  The charge for the overdraft is a 1 percent access fee and a maintenance fee on the outstanding balance. This means that the sooner the borrower pays for the loan the better it is for the person to avoid expensive charges. Once an overdraft is received, the borrower will have to pay within 90 days or face being defaulted. M-Pesa has about 21 million users in Kenya and according to Vodacom, M-Pesa subscribers in Vodacom’s Tanzania, the DRC, Mozambique and Lesotho markets expanded by 227,000 customers in three months to hit 13.4 million users at the end of December last year.