The Dangote Tomato Processing Company, Kadawa, Kano State, Nigeria which suspended operations more than two years ago, has resumed operation. This comes a month after the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN),  Godwin Emefiele said that the apex bank is looking at investing in tomatoes production just as it did with rice to improve local production and reduce importation. This will also help in increasing the supply of tomatoes by bringing back farmers who shifted to rice and wheat production. The Dangote multi-billion dollar tomato paste factory resumed production after surmounting some difficulties which include importation of tomato paste, shortfalls in the supply of fresh tomatoes and power failure, according to the Managing Director, Dangote Tomatoes Farms, Sani Kaita. It would be recalled that Dangote factory shut down operation in May 2016  due to a decrease in the supply of fresh tomatoes in the five tomatoes producing states in the country. Most of the farmlands across Kano, Jigawa, Plateau, Katsina and Kaduna states were affected by  “Tuta Absoluta” pest attack, which destroyed tomatoes species. In November 2016, the company blamed the extended closure of the plant on the continued importation of tomato paste from China. Despite actions taken by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to curb this by stopping forex sale to importers of tomato paste, the influx of the product is still on the rise. He also said that the importation of the product is cheaper than local production because China has dropped the price of the products by 50 percent in order to meet Nigeria’s demand. Apart from Dangote factory, Erisco tomatoes paste factory had in 2016 threatened to pull out of Nigeria and set up shop in Kenya, Cameroon, Cote d’Ivoire and Ethiopia. The Chief Executive Officer of  Erisco Foods, Chief Eric Umeofia said that he was being forced to exit the Nigerian Market because of the harsh conditions of doing business in the country.  He also said that it was cheaper and more cost efficient to produce in China and then export to Nigeria and other African markets than locally producing it in the continent. He also complained that Erisco 450,000 metric tons tomato processing plant was operating below 20 percent of its installed capacity due to the activities of unscrupulous Nigerians who were importing substandard tomato paste. However, in order to have more supply of the fruit, Dangote Tomato processing Company signed an agreement with Tomato Growers Association and concluded arrangement to purchase fresh tomatoes from farmers in Gombe and Sokoto States. Although, it is worthy to note that this agreement could have an effect on the price of tomatoes that are being sold in the markets across the country because most farmers would prefer to sell directly to tomatoes paste companies than to middlemen. It would also help in reducing the number of fruit that gets rotten daily thereby reducing the losses of the farmers. Meanwhile last month, multinational food company, GB foods commissioned a N2 billion investment 30 Metric Tonne per day tomatoes processing plant as well as a pilot farm with the capacity to grow over 15 different varieties of tomato with an average yield of 40-50 MT/ha. From all indications ,there is no doubt that  Nigeria is close to self-sufficiency in tomato paste production as it awaits the entrants of more companies. What you didn’t know about Nigeria’s tomatoes industry