The death toll in Zimbabwe has risen to 89 after Cyclone Idai hit the southern African nation as it tore across the region, creating further strain in countries like Zimbabwe which is grappling with economic woes and a shortage of foreign currency to purchase essential supplies. According to the Ministry of Information, Publicity & Broadcasting‏, “the hardest hit residence is Ngangu Township in Chimanimani. Most loss of life happened here. Over a hundred houses were damaged by mud-falls and rockfalls.” Chimanimani district has now been cut off from the rest of the country roads, homes and bridges swept away, and power and communication lines knocked out. “The number of confirmed deaths throughout the country is now 89,” Reuters quoted Nick Mangwana, the secretary for ministry of information to have said. Karikoga Kutadzaushe, operations director for the Zimbabwe Red Cross said two boarding school students were among those killed in eastern Zimbabwe. According to him, they died after a boulder rolled into their dormitory. The government has declared a state of disaster in areas affected by the storm, the worst to hit the country since Cyclone Eline devastated eastern and southern Zimbabwe in 2000. President Emmerson Mnangagwa has also cut short his visit to the United Arab Emirate “to make sure he is involved directly with the national response by way of relief to victims of cyclone Idai”. Apart from its economic woes, Zimbabwe is also suffering a severe drought that has threatened agricultural yields. According to the World Food Programme, 5.3 million people will require food aid in Zimbabwe this year. Cyclone Idai hit Mozambique, Thursday, with winds of up to 177km/h, cutting off more than 500,000 residents in the port city of Beira, the country’s fourth largest city. The storm was so bad that roads were flooded and the airport was shut down after the air traffic control tower, the navigation systems and the runways were damaged by the storm. It then headed for Zimbabwe to wreak more havoc. The U.N. reported last week that 122 people had died in Mozambique and Malawi prior to Cyclone Idai’s landfall as a result of flooding caused by the tropical cyclone’s weather system. Meanwhile, South Africa’s International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has urged South Africans to make donations for flood relief in neighbouring countries affected by Cyclone Idai. In a statement issued on Sunday, Sisulu appealed to South African NGOs, companies and individuals to make donations towards humanitarian aid for the affected countries. “We have directed all our Embassies and Diplomats to continue to work with the three countries to assess the damage. We have this afternoon received reports from our Missions and our teams on the ground who are working with authorities. What is urgent now is the provision of humanitarian aid,” Sisulu said in the statement.