Health is like money, we never have a true idea of its value until we lose it. This statement by Wheeler Shaw, a famous 19th-century humour writer, could not be truer, especially in Africa where the diseases afflicting the African population are responsible for a substantial loss in health, estimated at 705 million disability-adjusted life year (DALY) or the number of years lost due to ill-health, disability or early death in 2015 alone. Although the value of health cannot truly be measured, the loss caused by the lack of it caused 47 African member states of the World Health Organization (WHO) a whopping $2.4 trillion from its annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This is according to the WHO estimates. Non-communicable diseases are the largest drain on productivity, accounting for 37 percent of the disease burden. 27 percent are from communicable and parasitic diseases which also play a big role in draining trillions from African economies. However, Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs), road traffic injuries, maternal, neonatal and nutrition-related conditions and injuries are the most common.  In 2015, GDP losses due to maternal and neonatal health conditions were estimated at $45.59 billion and $347.34 billion respectively.  According to the World Health Organisation, around 47 percent or $796 billion of this lost productivity value could be avoided in 2030 if the Sustainable Development Goals related to these health conditions are achieved. Sadly, health is wealth, or in this case, health requires wealth; a lot of it.  From the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development estimates, attaining the 17 Sustainable Development Goals will require spending ranging from $1.5 trillion to $2.5 trillion per year until 2030, or up to $37.5 trillion. For low-income countries, an additional $671 billion dollars ($76 per capita on average) will be needed to attain the health-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Five countries (the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Nigeria, South Africa and the United Republic of Tanzania) accounted for almost 50 percent of the total years lost in a healthy life. This is no wonder, given the little amount allocated to their various health sectors. However, if health care improvements are sustained at the current rate, Africa would lose almost $1.7 trillion in GDP in 2030, unless the attainment of SDG comes to the rescue and reduce lost productivity by almost half; $892 billion or 47 percent.