With Gambia’s parliament approving the ratification of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement (AfCFTA), the hope of having a single market on the continent is closer to becoming a reality. More than 40 African countries signed the landmark trade agreement in March 2018. The deal commits countries to removing tariffs on 90 percent of goods, as well as allow free access to commodities, goods, and services across the continent. If successfully implemented, the agreement would create a single African market with more than one billion consumers and a GDP of more than $3 trillion. However, for the agreement to come into force, at least 22 countries needed to ratify it. This has now been achieved, with Gambia becoming the 22nd country to do so. The motion to ratify the agreement was brought before the Gambian parliament by Lamin Jobe, Gambia’s trade minister who highlighted the benefits of improved regional integration to trade. “This document will definitely serve as a take-off point to enhance the free movement of people, good and services. By using this there is a lot of advantages that we can gain from the implementation of this agreement,” he said, convincing the Parliament which acceded to his request. Conspicuously missing from the list of 22 countries that have ratified the agreement is Nigeria, which analysts say is pussyfooting because it has failed to position itself to benefit from the deal. “Although Nigeria remains the largest economy in Africa, the economy of scale and other advantages that comes with tariff-free intra and inter Africa trade may affect competitiveness of Nigerian businesses on the continent,” says Dr. Ikpenmosa Uhumuavbi, an International Finance expert and lecturer at Bolton University Law School. “Nigeria’s infrastructural deficit, and insecurity are major challenges that could hamper production in the country,” he adds. “High transaction cost within Nigeria may lead to cheaper imports from the bloc or other markets. This may put local manufacturers out of business and increase Nigeria’s import dependency.” The West African country whose economy is Africa’s largest finds itself alone as other big economies in Africa, which together with Nigeria make up more than 50 percent of Africa’s cumulative GDP — Egypt and South Africa — have ratified the agreements. It remains to be seen what action Nigeria will take as the process of making AFCTA operational begins. 