The age of consent in Africa for sexual activity varies by jurisdiction across the continent, ranging from age 12 in South Africa to age 18 in Kenya, but this might not be the same for long, as Kenyan Parliament through the Statue Law (Miscellaneous Amendment Bill) 2016, wants the age for consensual sex reduced to 16 years. The Parliament wants the Sexual Offences Act amended. Some
judges called for a candid national discussion on “this sensitive and important
matter” while some others did not subscribe to the idea. Those that are for the amendment said, there is a need to amend
the Sexual Offences Act because some sections can lead to injustice contrary to
the noble intentions of the law. Their arguments are, “Our prisons are teeming
with young men serving lengthy sentences for having had sexual intercourse with
adolescent girls whose consent has been held to be immaterial because they were
under 18 years,” and “The wisdom and justice of this unfolding tragedy calls
for serious interrogation,” argued Court of Appeal judges Roselyn Nambuye,
Daniel Musinga, and Patrick Kiage. The Kenya National Union of Teachers are part of those
against reducing the age. In fact, some want it increased to 21. “The proposal
is outrageous and should not be given an ear by any sober and sane Kenyan,”
said Bungoma East Knut secretary general Aggrey Namisi. As of 2008 in Kenya, 26 percent of kids between 14-17 attend
secondary school, of which 27 percent are males compared to the 26 percent who
are females. Meaning there are more boys than girls and a higher chance of girls
having sexual intercourse without consent. Presently, Kenya is home to 10.5
million adolescents aged 10–19 years, representing 22.5 percent of the total
population and the mean age at which adolescents have their first baby in
Kenya is 17.4 for girls and 18.1 for boys. About 1.5 million Kenyan adolescents aged 15–19 are sexually active, with the mean age of them having their first sexual intercourse between 16.3 years for girls and 15.5 years for boys. Sex education should be taught in schools from as early as primary school as it empowers them to make informed decisions. Some health experts also agree to this. Aggrey Akula, a gynaecologist in Kenya noted that “If they are not well equipped with information on how to practise safe sex and how to take care of themselves, why are we introducing them to sex? Lowering the age means they can go and start practising what they totally know nothing about.” Worse, this may reduce the age at which adolescents have their first baby, increase the number of out of school children, as well as increase the poverty rate in Kenya.