Some say profit is the soul of business — it keeps it ticking. But for others, customers are the lifeblood of all businesses. Both arguments hold water but when trying to increase profits, most would agree that there is a huge focus on getting more sales/revenue, to the extent that some businesses forget that reducing cost may be a route to increasing profits. Every business has a better chance of being profitable and competitive if it reduces cost and ensures that every money spent has a short-term or long-term benefit to the business.  Here are five tips for evaluating and reducing unnecessary costs in your business You have probably heard this before, but it is extremely important that you keep business and personal accounts separate (even if means you have two Current Accounts!). It is difficult to know if your business is making profits or just being busy if you mix inflows and outflows of cash from both business and personal accounts. We advise our clients to track every Naira spent on activities associated with running their businesses. Paid for Uber to visit a client? Track it. Bought food for your staff? Track it. Paid yourself a salary? Track it. Even if you didn’t “actually spend cash” Track it. For example, you sent clothes to a social media influencer to market for your business? Track clothes cost as a marketing expense. Tracking everything will help you understand your true business expense and give you a baseline to know where to reduce cost. You can use the Vencru app to track your expenses. Want to reduce your business cost but don’t know where to start? Consider grouping expenses by similar categories and starting with the largest group. For example, does your cost include payments to Uber, Taxify/Bolt, logistics for delivering clothes to customers? Group those costs as Transportation/Logistics. That way you can understand what is the largest expense group that is driving your business cost down. Sometimes we make major expenses such as marketing or expansion but don’t always check to see if these expenses would result in future profits. For example, you spent N100,000 ($278) on marketing for your Bakery but you only make a profit of N5,000 for each sold cake, you need 20 orders to make that new marketing expense worth it. Making investments without making reasonable profits can drive your profits further down — remember busyness vs profits. To ensure you are getting the best rate, periodically review your vendors’ cost by sourcing for new quotes. Keeping your vendors’ cost low (but of similar quality) can help you maximize profits.