The United States, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia are watching events in Sudan closely as the country’s ruling Transitional Military Council (TMC) and opposition forces disagree over demands for civilian rule following the ouster of President Omar al-Bashir who succumbed to protesters’ call for an end to his 29-year rule. The TMC on Monday warned protesters against blocking roads and limiting the movement of citizens, as they camp outside the Defence Ministry, blocking some roads outside the compound in the capital Khartoum. But the Sudanese Professionals’ Association (SPA), the main organiser of the protests, said on Sunday that it would suspend talks with the Council. “We have decided to opt for escalation with the military council, not to recognise its legitimacy and to continue the sit-in and escalate the protests on the streets,” Mohamed al-Amin Abdel-Aziz of the SPA said on Sunday while addressing crowds outside the Defence Ministry. Alaa Salah, who has become a symbol of the protests that forced Bashir out of office also said Sudan’s revolution was far from over, as she called for the removal of a regime of “murder and tyranny”. “Our demands are related to the removal of a corrupt regime from its roots… It destroyed Sudan. Corruption has spread (everywhere). A regime of murder and tyranny,” Salah told Reuters. “We are currently in the squares because Bashir is part of the regime, and our idea and goal is the fall of the regime as a whole. We want a better Sudan, a democratic state, one that judges all in accordance with the law, without favouritism.” “Our revolution is continuing until our demands are met.” While Salah and the SPA continue the struggle, what is most important to the United States, UAE and Saudi Arabia is peace in the Arab nation. Together, the UAE and Saudi Arabia have set up a joint initiative that will see the delivery of $3 billion in assistance to Sudan. The assistance bundle entails $500 million deposit into Sudan’s central bank to strengthen the country’s liquidity and monetary reserves, while the remaining amount will be dedicated to support the people of Sudan, across food, medicines, and fuel derivatives. On its part, the United States supports a transition to a peaceful and democratic Sudan led by civilians who represent the diversity of Sudanese society. The Western powerhouse aligns with the will of the Sudanese people clamouring for an overhaul of the current regime. “It is time to move toward a transitional government that is inclusive and respectful of human rights and the rule of law,” a statement by the United States Department of States said, advising the TMC and other armed groups the need to show restraint, avoid conflict, and remain committed to the protection of the Sudanese people.