In the past months, East African countries, Rwanda and Uganda have been at loggerheads leading to the closure of the borders. The resurgence of hostility between the African neighbours deteriorated diplomatic relations and fuelled tensions as both countries accused each other of supporting rebels. Easing tensions between the two countries will not be easy, especially with Rwandan President Kagame’s mindset that Uganda wants to “bring Rwanda to its knees” and Uganda’s President Museveni believing that “once we mobilise, you can’t survive.” However, these are the kind of issues that would be discussed at the 8th Tana Forum, taking place from May 4 to May 5 in Bahir Dar, Ethiopia. From solidifying the Joint Declaration on Peace and Friendship signed by Eritrea and Ethiopia to urging Kenya and Somalia to peacefully settle a maritime border dispute that has spiked diplomatic tensions between them, the annual forum will be discussing the theme “Political Dynamics in the Horn of Africa: Nurturing the Emerging Peace Trends”, with overall objective of discussing and following up on peace and security issues in Africa. In the past year, there have been substantial positive developments in Africa, especially in the Horn. However, there has also been a myriad of challenges to security. From internal fragility and displacement to a dearth of inclusive governance and the emergence of ethnicity as a political tool. Knowing that relevant and candid dialogue is fundamental to resolving conflict and transforming societies, the Tana High-Level Forum on Security in Africa brings together African leaders and stakeholders from diverse spheres and sectors, to examine the changing roles and functions of African member states, as well as engage and explore African-led security solutions  in the pursuit of peace and stability. The Forum provides opportunities for decision-making leaders and institutions to exchange experiences and insights on peace and security issues among themselves with a view to taking home inspiration and practical lessons. The 8th Tana Forum will examine the current challenges imposed by the changing political dynamics in the Horn as well as discuss alternative prospects for the region, interrogating ways in which emerging peace and security trends can be effectively nurtured to produce the desired positive effect necessary for the achievement of a prosperous Africa.