Ever since South Africa began talks of introducing a carbon tax on petrol and diesel, as part of the government’s efforts to deal with climate change, the reactions have been largely negative. On Tuesday, the world’s largest primary producer of platinum, Anglo American Platinum Limited (Amplat) noted that the newly approved tax could cost the company up to $21 million yearly from 2021. South Africa is one of the 195 signatories to the Paris Agreement which aims to maintain the global average temperature below 2°C as it is believed that this would substantially reduce the risks and effects of climate change. To show its commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, South Africa, after an eight-year process of preparation and consultation with stakeholders, finally approved the carbon tax in February 2019. According to Amplat’s chief executive, Chris Griffith, the carbon tax would cost Amplats around R50 million ($3.56 million) over the next two years, rising to between 200 million (14.2 million )and 300 million (21.4 million) from 2021 when a tax on electricity use is included. To Griffith, the tax is piling pressure on an industry already grappling with higher energy and labour costs. Amplat is not the only company against the carbon tax. Top energy firms in South Africa also argue that the levies are unaffordable and should be scrapped or delayed. Firms like Sibanye-Stillwater, ArcelorMittal’s local unit, steel firms and state-owned power utility Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd said it would erode profits and push up electricity prices. Meanwhile, ArcelorMittal’s South African mining unit opposed the carbon tax bill on the grounds that it would hurt the steel firm’s competitiveness at a time when it was struggling with cheaper imports and weak demand. The new law, with a tax rate of 1R20($10) per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent would affect about 1,000-1,500 companies and 75 percent of national emissions. In South Africa, states that total tax-free allowances during the first phase until 2022 can be as high as 95 percent. Climate change has been a recurring topic of discussion globally and the effects are impacting countries differently. Over the past month, Nigeria has experienced heat waves. As of last week, the temperature reached 42.2C in Minna, 120km northwest of Abuja. Mozambique battled climate change and then witnessed one of its deadliest cyclones. A 2018 report, Future We Don’t Want, noted that major South African centres are at risk from the effects of climate change: Cape Town; Durban, Port Elizabeth; East London and Paarl are at risk of flooding by 2050, displacing the 800 million people living in 570 coastal cities. At the rate the world is going, it seems inevitable that the planet will overshoot the 2°C mark and maintaining a favourable climate would require the removal of up to a trillion tonnes of carbon dioxide.  Instead of companies in Africa’s most industrialised country to reduce its reliance on coal and support the government’s measures to reduce the effects of climate change, they are more concerned on the money they would be loosing. 