People around the world are becoming angrier, stressed and worried. For the second consecutive year, all three emotions rose to record levels. In 2018, Gallup polled about 1,000 adults in 142 countries, asking about the emotions they had experienced the day before the survey. Negative emotions and experiences — stress, anger, worry, sadness and physical pain — were common around the world unlike in 2017, when more people reported good and positive experiences the day before the survey. The Global Emotions Report which measures life’s intangibles — feelings and emotions — that traditional economic indicators such as GDP were never intended to capture, discovered more than one in three adults in 142 countries said they experienced a lot of worries and stress. Of 10 persons questioned, three said they experienced a lot of physical pain and at least one in five experienced sadness or anger. Global happiness studies often involve two measures — how people see their lives and how they live their lives. However, both concepts are rooted in behavioural economics, stated Jon Clifton, Global Managing Partner at Gallup. Unfortunately, Chadian’s see and experience the worst negative experiences compared to other countries in the world. Even when other countries reported positive experiences in 2017, negative experiences remained ever-present across Chad’s population and it did not get better in 2018. 66 percent of residents in 2018 experienced physical pain, nearly 61 percent were worried while 54 percent felt a lot of sadness and 51 percent felt stress. The percentage (38) of people in the Republic of Chad who were angry the day before the Gallup polls were nearly twice the global average which stands at 22 percent. More than seven in 10 Chadians struggled to afford food at some point in the past year. Since 2014 when oil prices fell, Chad’s economy has been in a deep recession and living standards have been poor in the central African nation. Almost 6 million of its 15 million citizens live in extreme poverty. In general, Niger and Liberia were the most emotional countries and the people in most of the countries with the highest negative scores (Benin, Guinea, Togo, Morocco and Congo) were contending with some type of turmoil. Anger can be a positive and useful emotion if it is expressed appropriately. However, the long-term physical effects of uncontrolled anger include increased anxiety, high blood pressure and headache.  Same goes for stress; it is normal and healthy but chronic stress is connected to a range of conditions, including mental health issues, cognitive changes and chronic disease. Although Negative emotions increased worldwide, there were also positive experiences. Worldwide, at least 71 percent worldwide said they experienced a lot of enjoyment, 72 percent felt well-rested, 74 percent smiled or laughed a lot while 87 percent felt treated with respect.