For more than four months, Sudanese have been protesting. Their first request – Al-Bashir stepping down- have been fulfilled but they are still relentless about getting their other demands met and for that have remained on the streets demonstrating. However, it is becoming a challenge to keep up and doctors and cooks have stepped in, offering moral support. A network of volunteers, doctors, nurses and cooks have helped to keep the demonstration going by setting up staffing clinics in the streets and surroundings of the sit-in.  As of yesterday, dozens of protesters suffered from heat exhaustion and other forms of exhaustion. Some got so bad that an IV drip was provided. The temperature in Sudan  has been hovering above 40°C and given that thousands have been spending days in the sun, situations like these are expected. However, these volunteers do not want people to give up in their fight for a chance at better civilian governance by going home so they have brought the clinics to the streets. The cooks joined in assisting the protesters because its impossible for over 5,000 protesters to keep chanting “freedom, freedom” and “revolution, revolution” for days on empty stomachs. So while some provided foods, some others volunteered to cook the food to ensure people are well fed. Razan Hassan al-Tayeb who spoke to Associated Press, said “People come just as they are and they don’t come with anything, so we are trying to make people not go back home hungry or thirsty or something like that.” “Outside the sit-in, it’s a different place but inside the sit-in, this is the place that we dream of (freedom), where you can speak and have a voice. You can say whatever you want. Whatever you desire to say and reach the people,” she said. In other news, ousted President Omar Al-Bashir who was under house arrest in a “safe location”, has been transferred to a maximum security jail, in Kobar, located in the country’s capital, Khartoum. He is being kept in solitary confinement under heavy security. Demonstrators have also called for an “immediate and unconditional” transfer of power to a four-year civilian government, meanwhile, the military has said its own transitional council will rule Sudan for up to two years until elections can be organised. The inability for the demonstrators and the military to reach an agreement shows that the streets of Khartoum are not clearing anytime soon as the protesters are unwilling to waver in their demands.