Nigeria
ranked sixth in the Hanke’s Annual Misery 2018 index of the world’s saddest and
happiest countries. The ranking according to Steve
Hanke is based on 95 nations that report relevant data on a timely basis. Hanke, an
economist with the John Hopkins University and a Forbes contributor stated that
human conditions inhabit a vast continuum between “miserable” and
“happy.” In the sphere of economics, misery tends to flow from high
inflation, steep borrowing costs and unemployment. This
ranking comes just few weeks after Africa’s most populous country made it past the
crossroads of a tightly contested general election and shows how crucial it is
for Nigeria to hit the ground running.  The lights are on, cameras are running; it is
time for a much-needed action! Despite
the fact that there were many dynamic and vibrant presidential aspirants who
over the years have displayed visionary excellence, creativity and good leadership
in different fields, the incumbent president, Muhammadu Buhari of the All
Progressive Congress (APC) and former vice president Atiku Abubakar of the
Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), visibly overpowered the race. Though
marred by open vote buying, military interference and unwarranted use of excessive
force on civilians, the just concluded general elections still recorded low
occurrences of post election violence with the incumbent, President Muhammadu
Buhari declared winner.  This win gives President
Buhari a second chance to address the same challenges he promised to address in
2015 when he was elected into office. Besides
changing his dress sense in his 2015 campaigns, the president who was then
running for the fourth time also toned down the intense ethnic, regional and religious
rhetoric that characterized his previous campaigns.  President Buhari also made a truckload of
promises that included addressing the challenges of terrorism, corruption, and the
need to improve the livelihood of Nigerians by growing the economy. These
campaign promises were answered prayers that gave hope to a lot of Nigerians
who just wanted “change.” While
these challenges have no quick fix, there also hasn’t been a considerable
consistency or progress in fulfilling the 2015 campaign promises. Nigeria
has experienced an increase in the number of terrorist groups and activities. Based
on the 2018
Global Terrorism Index, Nigeria presently ranks third after Iraq and
Afghanistan in global terrorism.  Two of
the world’s top deadliest groups – Boko Haram and the Fulani Herdsmen militia still
brazenly operate with fierce brutality and intensity within Nigeria. The Buhari-led
administration in a statement said the military “technically” defeated Boko
Haram, but there are indicators that the group is more stealthy, sophisticated
and strategic in their operations. A
recent Amnesty International Nigeria report titled “Harvest
of Death” mentioned that there has been “a dramatic increase in
violence involving Fulani extremists even as deaths by Boko Haram are falling.”
The brutal killing of women and children in the North Central region of Nigeria
by the Fulani Herdsmen militia increased in the past three years with scores of
people killed, villages decimated and as a result leaving many people
internally displaced. Some 1.8 million
people remain internally displaced across the three northeast states of
Adamawa, Borno and Yobe, of whom 85 percent are in Borno alone according to a
2017 United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) report. The
International Crisis Group highlighted the fact that violence escalated in
Adamawa, Benue, Nasarawa, Plateau and Benue states with an estimated 300,000
fleeing their homes in what they described as “large scale displacement and
insecurity.” Amnesty International Nigeria says 22 out of the 36 states
in Nigeria continue to face these attacks. The
Nigerian army has been at the forefront of the fight against terrorism and has
lost many gallant soldiers in this fierce battle. The brave soldiers that
continue to fight and defend our freedom must be commended for their hard work,
bravery and sacrifice. Unfortunately, there are challenges that complicate this
tough mission and has made it harder for the Nigerian military to achieve its
mission of totally defeating the terrorists. Former
U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria John Campbell in a 2015 Time magazine article
mentioned the fact that fraud is a bigger issue faced by the Nigerian military.
“Nigeria’s annual military budget is somewhere between five
and six billion dollars,” says Campbell. “Yet we have credible reports of soldiers
being sent into combat with no bullets. The army is plagued by corruption,
incompetence and bad morale.” Last
year, there were allegations against the Nigerian military of gross misconduct
and abuse of civilians (mainly survivors of terrorist attacks). In April 2018, Nigeria’s
military declared three UNICEF employees “persona non grata” in
connection with allegations of soldiers sexually abusing children in the
northeast. Amnesty
International Nigeria in the same “Harvest of Death” 2018 report alleged that
the Nigerian Military ignored warnings of imminent attacks in the north-central
states.  The report stated that the
military was “slow to act” even when they were at proximity to most of the
communities being attacked, with some attacks going on for days. It is
important to note that this is not the first time that such allegations are
leveled on the Nigerian military. In 2010, the then governor of Plateau state
Senator David Jonah Jang commenting on the Dogo na Hawa massacres alleged that
military commanders ignored warnings of imminent attacks on three communities
in which hundreds of mostly women and children were brutally murdered by
suspected Fulani Herdsmen militants. There have
also been a couple of citizens’ protests and rallies in the north-central
states of Plateau, Benue and Kaduna based on suspicions of possible collusion
between the Nigerian military and the Fulani Herdsmen militants. Former Chief
of Army Staff, General Theophilus Danjuma (rtd) also alleged that the Nigerian
military is colluding with terrorist in the killings that continue to claim
scores of lives in the North-Central and North -Eastern parts of Nigeria. Last year,
the Nigerian military opened fire on unarmed religious protesters of the
Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) Shia Muslim group. Videos show the military
shooting into protesters at close range, even when the protesters were fleeing. The Human
Rights Watch in a statement said, “the repression against the IMN
Shia Muslim group by government security forces risks creating grievances that
could worsen Nigeria’s already precarious security situation.” The
African Development Bank Group in the African
Economic Outlook 2019 report mentioned the fact that the slide in
oil prices from late 2018 coupled with an output cut imposed by the
Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC poses a downside risk to
the Nigerian economic outlook. Unfortunately,
and in all fairness to the present administration in Nigeria, the fact that
Nigeria’s economy is heavily dependent on oil revenues does not put the country
or anyone leading the country in a good place. Nigeria is not responsible for
the global oil prices and will have to deal with international market forces.
The implication is that a decline in international oil prices influences a
decline in the Nigerian economy. Regardless
of the economic effects of international oil prices, it is the responsibility
of a progressive and active government to take some serious alternative measures
to create a cushion effect in order to reduce the intensity of economic hardship
on the people. Unfortunately, this has not been the case over the past three
years. The World
Data Lab estimates that 87 million (44% of the general population)
people in Nigeria now live below the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a day. This
data implies that approximately six Nigerians fall below the extreme poverty
line every minute. Bill Gates mentioned that poverty is becoming much more
concentrated and 40 percent of people in extreme poverty will live in just
Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo by the middle of this
century. Nigeria’s
population reached 182 million in 2016 with more than half its people under 30,
according to Bloomberg.
This fast-growing youth demographic also means an increase in youth
unemployment and other vices as a result. The Director General of the Nigerian
Youth Service Corps (NYSC) Brigadier General Suleiman Kazaure stated that no
fewer than 300,000 graduates are mobilized annually for the NYSC program, this
implies that approximately 300,000 young people that are mostly under 30 of age
are annually released into a job market that has no jobs. These
data about the Nigerian economy and the growing youth bulge can be a huge
positive or negative factor depending on how the Nigerian government chooses to
approach it and what economic infrastructure are put in place to take advantage
of the Nigerian youth bulge as an opportunity for economic growth and
development. The
president’s reputation as a corruption warlord continues to be questionable as
close associates, political party members and affiliates seem to be immune to
this war. President Buhari’s zero tolerance towards corruption was one of his
major campaign promises that inspired many to support and vote him in 2015. Transparency International, the Global
anti-corruption watchdog, in its 2018 Corruption Perception Index (CPI) ranked
Nigeria low. Out of 180, Nigeria was ranked 144 with a score of 27 out of
100.  The rank of a country according to
Transparency International indicates its position relative to the other
countries in the index. The score on the other hand indicates the perceived
level of public sector corruption on a scale of 0 as highly corrupt to 100 as
very clean. According to
Transparency International, an analysis of the index results
indicates that countries with the lowest protections for press and
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to freely operate and influence
public policy also tend to have the worst rates of corruption. The
health of the current president continues to be a disturbing factor to the
people. The president spent huge amounts of time abroad in his first tenure on
medical visits sometimes without any official statement to Nigerians about his
state of health. Health challenges are human challenges, especially as a person
gets older. However, the refusal of the president and this administration to be
transparent and accountable about the president’s state of health continues to
diminish the trust of the people and questions the president’s integrity and
competence. Because
of its abundant natural resources, youth bulge and growing population, Nigeria
is arguably considered to be the largest economy in Africa with the potential
to be a key player in the global economy on different levels. Nigeria
needs to move from being just a consumer market to being more productive. Diversified
productivity is crucial for economic growth and development, this is because it
has the capacity to move the economy by creating multiple streams of income and
as a result encourage positive economic growth and development. Based on The
Atlas of Economic Complexity, Nigeria in 1968 had an oil export that
was only 17 percent, with all other exports agriculturally based. By 2008, oil
and oil products export increased to 94 percent with a massive decline in the
production and exportation of agricultural products. Nigeria urgently needs economic infrastructures that will create an enabling environment and encourage productive economic growth and development. Top on the list of such economic infrastructure is safety and security of lives and property. Terrorism continues to interrupt agricultural productivity and the desire for investments in the agricultural sector or any other sector. Unfortunately, the Nigerian military are saddled with the responsibility of the safety and security of the people, but the people don’t trust the military based on suspicions of the military colluding with terrorists. Nigerian security agents continue to use unwarranted excessive force on civilians with some deaths recorded in that regard. Reports from both local and international organizations, citizens complain about the Nigerian military and other security agencies need to be taken seriously. The security agencies should be investigated and there should be a total reform of the Nigerian security infrastructure. The safety of lives and properties should be the priority of every government. Every Nigerian regardless of their tribe, religion or status possesses inherent dignity and worth that cannot be measured, respect for the sanctity of every human life must be the topmost priority of this administration. Nigeria
has the potential to attain the lofty heights it is supposed to attain but needs
a selfless and visionary leadership to make it happen. A leadership that is deeply
and truly rooted in an intentional effort to humbly serve the people in truth
and honesty against all odds. Regardless of the difference in tribe, religion and
political platforms, this administration needs to respect and appreciate the
uniqueness of every Nigerian and so mobilize all to take part in building a Nigeria
where peace and justice shall reign for all. This is action time!