Nigeria’s oil business magnate and Chairman of Taleveras Group, Igho Sanomi through his Dubai subsidiary, Taleveras Petroleum Trading DMCC, has supported Cancer Research UK to raise $1.5 million in order to tackle bowel cancer. “Taleveras has partnered with Cancer Research UK & Bobby Moore Fund, on Bowel Cancer research and has raised around $1.5 million over this period. Mortality rates for bowel Cancer have fallen by more than 30 per cent over the last two and a half decades, but sadly tens of people still lose their lives everyday to this diseases. The Bobby Moore Fund is firm in it’s resolve to eliminate bowel Cancer for good, and we are glad to partner with them on this journey,” said Igho Sanomi, Chairman of Taleveras Group. Bowel cancer which is also known as Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly occurring cancer in men and the second most commonly occurring cancer in women worldwide.  The incidence of colorectal cancer is increasing in developing countries including Sub Saharan Africa especially in the urban areas. The rate seems to have increased in several African countries which traditionally were recognized as low-risk countries, including Nigeria, Ghana, Tunisia, and Egypt. It now represents about 10 to 50 percent of all malignant tumours. In West Africa, Colorectal cancer has a unique pattern with an early age of onset and mostly left-sided tumours. According to the World Cancer Research Fund, there is strong evidence showing that consuming processed meat, red meat and alcoholic drinks, greater body fatness and adult attained height increase the risk of colorectal cancer.  Bobby Moore fund noted that around two-thirds of bowel cancer cases could be prevented by changes to lifestyle such as taking plenty of exercises, maintaining healthy body weight and eating a healthy diet. Equally important is early detection and recognising the symptoms of the disease which includes bleeding from the bottom without any obvious reason, a persistent change in bowel habit to looser or more frequent bowel motions, tummy pain, especially if severe, or a lump in your tummy. When it is found early, more than eight out of 10 people will survive. The Bobby Moore Fund was founded by Moore’s wife, Stephanie Moore in memory of the World Cup winning England soccer captain Bobby Moore, who died from bowel cancer in 1993 at the age of 51. The Bobby Moore Fund, which is a charity in the United Kingdom, was set up in partnership with Cancer Research UK (CRUK) in order to raise money for research into bowel cancer and create public awareness of the disease. Since its inception, the fund has raised more than $30 million to tackle bowel cancer.