The president of Egypt,  Abdel Fattah El-Sisi has increased the country’s minimum wage, pensions and the annual allowance of civil servants in order to alleviate the impact of inflation on wages. According to El-Sisi, the minimum wage was increased from EGP 1,200 ($69.3) to EGP 2,000 ($115.5), and pensions by 15 percent, setting the minimum pension at EGP 900($52). He also increased annual allowance by 7 percent for those addressed by the Civil Service Law and 10 percent for employees not included in the law. A move that will increases the wages item in the budget by EGP 30.5bn ($1.8bn). In view of this, the salary allocation for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019/2020 budget will be over EGP 300.5bn ($17.3 billion) up from EGP 270bn in FY 2018/19. The last time Egypt raised the minimum wage in the country was in 2014 when it reached EGP 1,200  ($69.3) up from EGP 700 ($40). It is worthy to note that this is part of El-Sisi’s economic reform.  These increases will have a great impact on the citizens’ purchasing power and will help increase GDP growth. In the past few years, Egypt has put several economic reform measures in place which includes floatation of its currency, substantial cuts in state subsidies on basic goods, and introducing a wide range of new taxes. This saw the country’s annual urban consumer price  ($69.3) rise to 14.4 percent in February 2019 due to food price increases. It is also worthy to note that the reforms were agreed on with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in exchange for a $12 billion loan. Following the increase, several private companies have decided to increase the wages and pension of their workers. According to daily news Egypt, Hamada El Agawany, vice chairperson and managing director of El Agawany for Industrial Machines and board member of the Cairo Chamber of Commerce, stressed that even though there were no instructions from the state to raise the minimum wage for private sector employees his company is fully convinced of the importance of increasing salaries in the light of current high prices and high inflation rates. Mohamed Saad Eldin, chairperson of Saad Eldin Group disclosed that his company will apply the increase announced by El-Sisi in terms of pensions and allowances to increase the efficiency of employees and the belief of the company to apply reward and punishment at work, confirming that the State does not intervene in the private sector’s affairs. Ehab Said, the chairperson of Khadamaty company and head of the communications division of the General Federation of Egyptian Chambers of Commerce, said that raising the minimum wage is a good step, but the wage of EGP 5,000 ($288.7) is not enough for employees in the light of price hikes of all goods and services. Egyptian economy crippled during the 29-year regime of autocrat Hosni Mubarak which led to an uprising in 2011. However, Sisi took power in 2014 following a military coup that overthrew and arrested the democratically-elected President Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood who took over from Hosni Mubarak. The economic issues in the country kept foreign tourists and investors away and reduced productivity. But,  El-Sisi’s reforms and improved security have so far improved economic indicators, winning praise from Cairo’s Western backers but the reforms are yet to affect most Egyptians.