There is hardly anything in this age that is not shortening your life span and from the moment a child is born, the child is dying just as he or she is living. From exposure to diseases, down to technology that is meant to make life easier and then natural disasters; many things pose threats to human health. As we celebrate the World Health Day, here’s one of the many things that may be dangerous to your health but is rarely talked about; your Wi-Fi. According to Science Direct, a scientific and medical research website, the Wi-Fi, a wireless networking technology that uses radio waves to provide high-speed network and Internet connections, is “an important threat to human health.” The study reveals that the wireless internet causes oxidative stress; sperm/testicular damage; neuropsychiatric effects including apoptosis, cellular DNA damage, endocrine changes, and calcium overload. According  to the World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, more than 141 million children will be born in 2019, of which 73 million will be boys and 68 million girls. Based on recent mortality risks, the boys will live, on average, 69.8 years and the girls 74.2 years; 4.4 years apart. Life expectancy at age 60 years is also greater for women than men; 21.9 versus 19.0 years. Although these statistic may not be directly related to the Wi-Fi, the majority of the threats posed by the Wi-Fi affects men more than women. Due to technological advancements, exposure to radio frequency is unavoidable from different devices, especially Wi-fi. This can lead to oxidative stress, an imbalance of free radicals and antioxidants in the body that can lead to cell, tissue damage and has been implicated in the development and progression of retinal diseases. Oxidative stress plays an important role in the development of cardiovascular diseases like coronary artery disease. Constant exposure to Wi-Fi leads to Long-term oxidative stress and it damages the body’s cells, proteins, and DNA. However, females are less susceptible to oxidative stress than males. Gender differences are present in many diseases and women live longer than men but in all, ill health, lack of access to medical facilities affects all genders, shortens lifespan and cost economies greatly.  The challenge, however, is that many at times, it is carelessness, excesses, ignorance,  habits or advancements by humans that contribute to the unhealthy population suffering from one disease or the other. According to the World Health Organization,  ill health cost 47 African member states, $2.4 trillion from its annual Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the organization postulates that if health care improvements are sustained at the current rate, Africa would lose almost $1.7 trillion in GDP in 2030. Every April 7, the world celebrates world health day and this 2019, the theme health for all is being discussed but until we begin to look at other causes of ill health, asides the 40 leading causes of death;  non communicable  diseases, infections and accident, as well as ensuring access to health care, we may never truly reach the point where health is for all.