Ethiopia is the latest African country to strike a deal with German automaker Volkswagen, following Ghana and Nigeria in 2018. The deal will see Volkswagen support Ethiopia in developing its automotive industry by establishing a vehicle assembly facility, localizing automotive components, introducing mobility concepts such as app-based car sharing and ride hailing as well as the opening of a training center. Thus, Volkswagen will work closely with the Ethiopian higher education and training institutions for skills development and capacity building of local talent. “As one of the fastest growing economies and with the second highest population in the continent, Ethiopia is an ideal country to advance our Sub-Saharan Africa development strategy,” said Thomas Schaefer, Head of the Volkswagen Sub-Saharan Africa Region, who signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Commissioner of the Ethiopian Investment Commission (EIC), Abebe Abebayehu in the presence of President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Frank-Walter Steinmeier and the Ethiopian Minister of Finance, Ahmed Shide. Ethiopia’s economy has grown impressively over the last decade. The country has also seen a recent wave of reforms which is increasing investor confidence in the country. Indian apparel maker KPR Export Plc. which invested in the country last year has started exporting from its base at the Mekelle Industrial Park in Ethiopia, shipping its first container to the European Union. Commenting on KPR’s export, Abebayehu noted that “industrial parks help attract and retain quality investors with sound capital, strong technology spillover and export growth contribution potential”. It is one of the reasons why Volkswagen is keen on Ethiopia. “Additionally, Volkswagen intends on tapping into existing expertise and strategic resources in Ethiopia to help to establish a thriving automotive components industry,” Shaefer said. Under its TRANSFORM 2025+ brand strategy, Volkswagen is strengthening the regions and focusing on new up-and-coming markets, with the Sub-Saharan Africa region seen as an important part of this. Last year, the company signed an MoU with Ghana that will see it establish a vehicle assembly facility and conduct a feasibility study for an integrated mobility solutions concept. In Nigeria, Volkswagen implemented a phased approach of vehicle assembly with a long-term view of establishing Nigeria as an automotive hub in West Africa. The car maker which has been manufacturing vehicles in South Africa since 1951 already has vehicle assembly operations in Algeria, Kenya and Rwanda.