Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni thinks the country’s youth are not working hard enough and he blames sports betting for their laziness. He has, therefore, directed that sports betting be banned. According to Uganda’s Minister of State for Finance, David Bahati, President Museveni ordered that no new licenses be issued to sports betting companies neither should the permits of existing betting companies be renewed. It costs USh10 million ($2,702) to secure a betting licence in Uganda. “We have received a directive from President Museveni to
stop licensing sports betting, gaming and gambling companies. The President has
now directed the board which has been regulating them. From now onwards, no new
companies are going to be licensed. Those which are already registered, no
renewal of licences when they expire,” Bahati stated. In Africa, betting on major European soccer leagues, as well as local and national teams, has become a multimillion-dollar industry. About 70 percent of sports betting has been estimated to be on football, where you can bet on the first and last goal-scorer, the correct score, the half-time score, number of goals, whether there will be a sending-off, a hat-trick, penalty or the number of corners. Some markets that are time specific go as far as offering odds for people to bet if there might be a goal, a red card, a corner or penalty in the first five minutes of the match. In 2016, Uganda’s National Lotteries and Gaming Regulatory Board revealed that more than 70 percent of Ugandans under 30 are engaged in various forms of gambling and they spend an estimated Shs150 billion ($40.52 million) annually on gambling. The board licenced 16 betting companies in 2017 and collected Sh35 billion in taxes accrued from gaming operations in the 2017/2018 financial year. It set a revenue target of approximately Sh45 billion in the 2018/2019 financial year or even more than Sh100 billion due to the introduction of a centralised monitoring system that allows it track every transaction logged by the punters in all gaming outlets. However, with the recent decision by the government, its revenue target will be impossible to achieve. In the East African country, a sports betting receipt costs a minimum of USh1,000 and a company that attracts 1 thousand clients a day could collect about Sh1 million. This amount does not include other bets that cost Sh5 thousand, Sh50 thousand and Sh1 million. Sports betting grew with improving internet penetration, as majority of sports betting is done on mobile phones. The introduction of online betting in Uganda also contributed to the high demand of smartphones, with studies showing that mobile platforms are the preferred means of gambling. Over a quarter of smartphone owners in Uganda use their smartphones for online gambling. The rise of the betting industry led Uganda’s Parliament to
pass the Lotteries and Gaming Act in 2016. A regulatory body, Lotteries and
Gaming Regulatory Board (LGRB) was also created to supervise and regulate the
gambling sector through the licensing and monitoring of gaming operators.