Former U.S. Vice President Al Gore’s sustainability-focused investment firm, Generation Investment Management leads Mark Zuckerberg’s Chan Zuckerberg Initiative and other investors to raise $100 million in a Series D funding round for African software company Andela.  Other investors in this round include GV, Spark Capital, and CRE Venture Capital.  This round brings Andela’s total venture funding to $180 million and it marks the largest investments ever made in the company. “Given our access to incredible talent across Africa, as well as what we’ve learned from scaling hundreds of engineering teams around the world, Andela is able to provide the talent and the technology to power high-performing teams and help companies adopt the distributed model faster,” Jeremy Johnson, co-founder and CEO of Andela said in a statement. In October 2017, the tech company received $40 million Series C funding round and a year before that the company also received $24 million Series B funding round from the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative founded by Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan. In a statement, Lilly Wollman, Co-Head of Growth Equity at Generation Investment Management said “Generation’s investment in Andela resulted from our deep research into the future of work. We believe Andela is a transformational model to develop software engineers and deploy them at scale into the future enterprise. The global demand for software engineers far exceeds supply, and that gap is projected to widen. Andela’s leading technology enables firms to effectively build and manage distributed engineering teams. We are great admirers of the outstanding team, mission and culture Andela has built across two continents and five countries.” With the Series D funding, the tech company will accelerate the development of its technology platform to identify, develop and match talent at scale. This will provide its customers with the data they need to understand developers performance and better manage distributed teams. The company will further expand its presence across Africa to meet the global demand for high-quality engineering talent. With tech campuses in Nigeria, Kenya, Uganda, and Rwanda, it has been recognized as “The Best Place to Work in Africa.” In 2018, also, The Wall Street Journal named Andela as one of the twenty-five technology company to watch, and the year prior, Fast Company ranked Andela as the most innovative company in Africa. Following this investment, in 2019, Andela is projected to double in size, hire another one thousand software developers and investing heavily in data, engineering, and product development. The Andela Story Andela was launched in 2014 to combat the global technical talent shortage by investing in Africa’s most talented software developers. With an estimated 1.3 million software jobs unfilled in the U.S. alone, it’s clear that the growth of today’s major technology ecosystems is inhibited by a severe lack of talent. To solve this, Andela invests in high potential pools of brainpower across the African continent to help more than 100 partner companies build distributed engineering teams. These partners range from industry leaders like Viacom and Mastercard Labs to high-growth technology companies such as Gusto and GitHub.