Barely ten days after the most profitable company in the East and Central African region, Safaricom PLC, launched its overdraft feature, Fuliza, the company has already recorded one million users. Kenya’s biggest telecommunication operator launched the Fuliza overdraft feature on its M-Pesa mobile phone-based money transfer, financing and microfinancing service on January 7, 2019 and by January 17, Fuliza has already surpassed its chief executive’s expectations. According to Safaricom’s Chief Executive Officer, Bob Collymore, “We got a million customers by day eight and by day eight we had lent $10 million. Now we are probably at $15 million.” Safaricom which is partly owned by South Africa’s Vodacom and Britain’s Vodafone co-launched the Mpesa service in 2007 to allow Kenyans without access to the banking network transfer money via mobile phones. Over time, the service evolved to offering loans and savings. With the overdraft feature, Kenyans can now withdraw cash from the overdraft when they are short of cash. “If you don’t have enough cash, you simply draw down from the overdraft and you keep drawing down until you have got to your overdraft limit, which is predetermined by an algorithm,” Collymore stated. Fuliza is underwritten by Kenya Commercial Bank group (KCB Group) and Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA Group), both of whom are in partnership with Safaricom to offer short-term loans on the M-Pesa platform. Presently, M-Pesa is the largest mobile network operator in Kenya and Tanzania. As of September 2018, M-Pesa commanded 43 percent of the market share in Tanzania. The Safaricom boss also spoke to Reuters saying he would welcome the reported planned takeover of the smallest operator, Telkom Kenya, by the second operator Bharti Airtel. “If the reported takeover of Telkom by Airtel goes through, it could render the competition report unnecessary.” Collymore of the potential Airtel/Telkom deal. Adding that “It is a good thing because what you create is an entity which has got at least 30 percent market share. There is a critical mass that any player needs to get to, to be operating sensibly.”