When Muhammadu Buhari first ruled Nigeria, he took power through a coup d’état which ended an infant democracy. His forceful claim to power was achieved through his military might. About 32 years later, he didn’t need his camoflague or his rifle to claim power, as the people led a major coup to get him to the number one seat in Nigeria, voting out an incumbent for the first time in the country’s history. He vowed he was a changed man and was no longer the man who seized power in 1983, but his actions over the last four years prove otherwise. The words of Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka, who described Buhari and then President Goodluck Jonathan as problematic candidates, ahead of the 2015 presidential election, remain true. “One contender is troubled by the present, the other by the past,” Soyinka told the BBC in an interview. Of Buhari, he said: “Buhari and his partner, the late Gen.
Tunde Idiagbon, after Sani Abacha (former military dictator), I think they
represented the most brutal face of military dictatorship. There is no question
about that. “But the environment changes, circumstances change and… I
look at the possibility of a genuine internal transformation in some
individuals. I’ve been disappointed before and we must always be ready to be
disappointed again,” he added. Soyinka had also written an essay
reminding Nigerians of Buhari’s past. “The conduct of the Buhari regime after his coup was not
merely one of double, triple, multiple standards but a cynical travesty of
justice,” he wrote. Decades after his military rule, critics of the president
still accuse him of double
standards. Many Nigerians are disappointed. While they would have hoped to not have to face the dilemma of choosing between two ‘problematic’ presidential candidates again after 2015, it is happening now. President Buhari’s first term as a democratically elected president has shown that a leopard never changes its spots. No matter how hard he tried, his actions are often a reminder of the military era, when the head of state was the law. On several occasions, President Buhari has shown blatant disregard for the rule of law. In fact, he once said the rule of law must be subject to national interest. The only time he has expressly obeyed a court order, it was to incapacitate a sitting Chief Justice, despite claims that moves against the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) was political. According to Section 292 of the Nigerian Constitution, “A
judicial officer shall not be removed from his office or appointment before his
age of retirement except in the following circumstances – (a) in the case of – (i)“Chief Justice of Nigeria, President of the Court of
Appeal, Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Chief Judge of the High Court of
the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Grand Kadi of the Sharia Court of Appeal of
the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and President, Customary Court of Appeal
of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, by the President acting on an address
supported by two-thirds majority of the Senate.” (ii) Chief Judge of a State, Grand Kadi of a Sharia Court of
Appeal or President of a Customary Court of Appeal of a State, by the Governor
acting on an address supported by two-thirds majority of the House of Assembly
of the State, praying that he be so removed for his inability to discharge the
functions of his office or appointment (whether arising from infirmity of mind
or of body) or for misconduct or contravention of the Code of Conduct; (b) in any case, other than those to which paragraph (a) of
this subsection applies, by the President or, as the case may be, the Governor
acting on the recommendation of the National Judicial Council that the judicial
officer be so removed for his inability to discharge the functions of his
office or appointment (whether arising from infirmity of mind or of body) or
for misconduct or contravention of the Code of Conduct. In other words, the president needs the support of at least two-thirds
majority in the Senate to be able to remove a sitting CJN. However, President Buhari claims he was only obeying a court order. But he made it clear in his statement that he wanted the CJN Walter Onnoghen out. The CJN had been charged to the Code of Conduct Tribunal over alleged breach of the Code of Conduct for Public Officers. “The nation has been gripped by the tragic realities of no
less a personality than the Chief Justice of Nigeria himself becoming the
accused person in a corruption trial since details of the petition against him
by a Civil Society Org. first became public about a fortnight ago,” Buhari
wrote on twitter. “Although the allegations in the petition are grievous
enough in themselves, the security agencies have since then traced other
suspicious transactions running into millions of dollars to the CJN’s personal
accounts, all undeclared or improperly declared as required by law. “Perhaps more worrisome is the CJN’s own written admission to the charges that he indeed failed to follow the spirit & letter of the law in declaring his assets, citing “mistake” [and] “forgetfulness” which are totally unknown to our laws as defences in the circumstances of his case. “One expected that with his moral authority so wounded, by
these serious charges of corruption, more so by his own written admission, Mr.
Justice Onnoghen would have acted swiftly to spare our Judicial Arm further
disrepute by removing himself from superintending over it while his trial
lasted. Unfortunately, he has not done so,” Buhari wrote. While most people kicking against President Buhari’s actions are not in support of the CJN’s alleged breach of the law, the fear of setting a bad precedence in the name of moral uprightness has made many wonder whether the former military leader, who claimed to have changed, is becoming a despot. More so, his moral uprightness has been called into question on several occasions where members of his ruling All Progressives Congress are affected. Onnoghen’s suspension hours before he was scheduled to swear
in members of the 2019 National Assembly, Governorship and State Assembly
Election Petition Tribunals further raises suspicion about the motive behind
his suspension, especially since it’s coming less than three weeks to the
presidential election. The next few days will see legal luminaries in Nigeria express different interpretations of the law on whether the president had the right to suspend a sitting chief justice, court order or not. The Senate which had adjourned sitting until after the elections may also be forced to reconvene. While they debate this, critics of the president are going to be reminding one another why President Buhari is a dictator that should be voted out. But the president’s support base remains massive; therefore, criticisms of his actions will be met with equal defense of them. Nigerians are stuck again between a rock and a hard place.
Seeing social investment programmes, rail development, among other achievements
the government of President Buhari boasts of, many Nigerian voters would
ordinarily not have a problem voting him in again, but the poor state of the economy
under him, fall in foreign direct investment (FDI), growing insecurity,
thriving corruption, plus his dictatorial tendencies are reasons to worry. Then, there is Atiku Abubakar, the candidate of the main
opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who is widely seen as corrupt. They are both above 70. As a result, an elitist section of Nigerians have decided to
pitch their tent with any of the alternative candidates who embody the values
they want to see in their president. Although, there has been a bit of drama
around the candidacy of one of the favourites in the alternative group (often referred
to as the third force), a belated coalition is being discussed and could see a ‘third
force’ getting a significant number of votes in the polls. Analysts have
dismissed the chances of any political party apart from the two major ones, but
most supporters of a third force are keen to make a statement with their votes,
to show that they are tired of the old order. “Whether my candidate wins or not, I’m sure about one thing;
I won’t live the next four years blaming myself for voting in whoever emerges
as president,” Tunde Balogun, a 29-year-old Nigerian who voted Buhari at the
last election said. “Not Buhari. Definitely, not Atiku,” he replied when asked
who he plans to vote.