The future of work has been predicted as one that would have machines and Artificial Intelligence (AI) take over the roles of humans and possibly, increase the rate of unemployment, if the innovations are not guided. This future involves one in which most businesses will be done through digital means. Therefore, to compete in this revolution, countries need a reliable internet service as most of the tasks or jobs needed to grow the economy will be done digitally. Only countries that build the right infrastructure and equip their workforce with the right tools will be able to compete in the global economy. With its recent feat as the African country with the fastest broadband speed, Madagascar might just be more ready than other African countries for the future of work as it has in place one of the infrastructure needed to thrive in this future. Despite being among the poorest countries in the world, the country can boast of having the fastest broadband speed in Africa and placed in the same list with world top economies like Singapore and Japan. The huge island nation off the southeast coast of Africa, with a population of over 26 million has only 2.1 percent of its people using the internet.  This is as a result of the unavailability of internet and unstable mobile connectivity in the remote areas of the country. Also, it costs Ar25,000 ($6.89) to purchase 1GB of data. This shows that the cost of accessing the internet is high as 70 percent of its citizens live on less than $1 a day. However, Madagascar has emerged as the African country with the fastest broadband speed. With a speed of 24.9 megabits per second (Mbps) which is twice the global average, more than that of the U.K. and France, the country is ranked 22nd globally. This can be attributed to the agreement the country’s largest internet provider, Telecom Malagasy, signed with the international operating division of Hong Kong Telecom in 2014. As a result of the internet speed, Madagascar has become a business processing and outsourcing spot as most of the businesses which involve processing of promotional coupons for supermarkets, collating of promotions and deals for e-commerce websites, application and software developments and customer service operation for various French companies are now carried out by one of its Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) companies, Outsourcia. In addition, there are now over 230 BPO companies in Madagascar, mostly in the capital Antananarivo. These companies have employed between 10,000 and 15,000 people. BPO is a form of outsourcing that involves contracting of the operations and responsibilities of a business to a third-party service provider and requires Information Technology as an infrastructure to function. It is referred to as ITES-BPO. ITES is an abbreviation for Information Technology Enabled Service. BPO companies handle responsibilities such as calls, document filing, human resources, payment services, accounting and IT services for other companies, allowing them focus on ‘bigger’ responsibilities. With the rate of growth of its BPO industry spurred by an impressive internet speed, the country is on its way to reducing its unemployment rate, which was 25.04 percent in 2017. Suffice it to say, that at the rate at which the country is growing as a result of its broadband speed, it might become the biggest outsourcing country in Africa. France is already in business with one of its BPO companies. Adding outsourcing to its sources of revenue is also a very good way to boost the country’s economy. Improved internet penetration in the country will even ensure more impact on the economy. On the other hand, some of the largest economies in Africa are yet to have a broadband speed that is even half of that of Madagascar. For example, South Africa has internet penetration of 20.9 percent and broadband speed of 6.4 Mbps, Ethiopia has an internet penetration of 1.5 percent with 1.13 Mbps and Nigeria has an internet penetration of 32.9 percent with 1.46 Mbps. These countries have growing economies that might not be able to survive the future which Madagascar seems to be prepared for if their internet services and broadband speed remain unchanged. While the number of users on a network can cause traffic congestion and reduce access speed, a careful network design ensures the creation of scalable networks that can be easily expanded without a significant effect on performance. With economies going digital, artificial intelligence replacing human intelligence and e-commerce being the new way of doing business, one can conclude that the future of work is here . The ability of a country to provide a reliable high-speed internet may be the only way to ‘save’ its workforce and not be left behind in the global trend about to hit economies.