Kenya’s African Butterfly Research Institute has reached an agreement with the London Natural History Museum and Cambridge University to buy pupae from farmers in Kenya under a butterfly farming programme led by Kenyan miner, Base Titanium. This programme is aimed at improving the quality of science learning schools, provide an income for local communities as well as boost conservation development through sustainable utilization of Butterfly biodiversity. Steve Collins, a director at African Butterfly Research Institute stated that, “We have reached a partnership with the London Natural History Museum and Cambridge University to buy pupae from the farmers at competitive prices.” According Micah Muema, the Environment Manager at Base
Titanium, “This butterfly project is one of the numerous environmental
programmes that we run in partnership with our local community. We involve the
community to create awareness on environmental conservation and to also boost
their livelihoods.” Muema added that, “a healthy butterfly population indicates
a healthy and clean environment as they cannot survive in polluted areas.” Worldwide, there are over 21,000 diverse species of butterfly with Africa having 3,800. Meanwhile, Kenya has 871 species of which 263 are found in the Arabuko Sokoke forest, a protected national Forest Reserve north of  Mombasa. Butterfly farming for commercial purposes is very lucrative, as one butterfly can lay more than 300 eggs depending on its species. In a lifetime one butterfly can lay up to one thousand eggs. With that, Kenyan farmers can make between Ksh30 ($0.30) to Ksh80 ($0.80) per pupae, depending on the species and the market. A dedicated butterfly farmer can earn an average annual per capita income of $20 to $735.5. In butterfly farming, farmers catch a few female butterflies
and transfer them to an enclosed place where they can lay eggs on host plants.
The room or enclosure must be temperate and humid, fully dedicated to raising
the insects. Once the breeding house is set up and the butterflies have laid their eggs, the farmers wait for them to hatch and the caterpillars that emerge are placed on new plants. These must be regularly replaced to satisfy their appetites where the butterflies continue to feed until they pupate and are ready to be transported. Butterfly farming has improved the local eco-tourism,
conservation education, and has led to better involvement of the local
community in managing and conserving the forest resource. Base Titanium runs a comprehensive suite of environment programmes, including a recycling programme which has seen the company donate school desks, school bags and shopping bags to the community. The company also has a rehabilitation programme where the community provides grass and legume seeds that can be planted around areas being rehabilitated following mining activities.