South African state-owned logistics firm, Transnet has taken former top executives to court for mismanaging about R1.3 billion ($94.73 million) as the company looks to recoup the funds. According to the company, the former top executives squandered the money through dubious dealings such as the money given to transactional advisers, Trillian and Regiments Capital. The rate of financial mismanagement was termed a horror show by Popo Molefe, chair of the Transnet board who confirmed the summons. “One would not be exaggerating to say what we found there was a horror show. Civil claims worth R1.3 billion ($94.73 million) has been served on individuals and companies,” Molefe said. The South African rail, port and pipeline company which operates nearly three-quarters of the African rail network, has for a long time been investigating allegations of corruption in the procurement of diesel and electric locomotives. Transnet and state-owned power utility Eskom which are overseen by the public enterprise department are both in connection with extensive allegations of corrupt behaviour involving state capture. The firms have been accused of irregularities in the awarding of contracts. Several investigative reports discovered anomalies in procurement processes after General Electric (GE), Bombardier, China North Rail (CNR) and China South Rail (CSR) were awarded contracts for the acquisition of locomotives worth around R54 billion ($4.5 billion). Currently, Transnet is carrying out an investigation into the procurement of 1,064 diesel and electric locomotives. So far, about R700 million ($51.0 million) has been recovered from the contract involving Trillian and Regiments Capital for the maintenance of locomotives. Molefe said the company did not need all the trains even till 2025 when the company would have needed 953 locomotives. “We are dealing with a company that requires the locomotives, but what we are looking at is that we did not need the 1064 diesel and electric locomotives over the three-year period. We are reviewing the business case,” he said. In May 2018, the chairwoman of Transnet, Linda Mobosa resigned alongside two non-executive directors Vusi Nkonyane and Yasmin Forbes. By October of the same year, the company terminated the contract of its Chief Executive, Siyabonga Gama for alleged misconduct in a multi-million-dollar deal.