 The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) held the country’s Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 14 percent, following its first meeting of 2019 which held from January 21 to 22, 2019. “The committee, in light of several considerations  decided by a vote of all 11 members  to keep the policy parameters unchanged from their current levels.  The MPC voted to retain the MPR at 14 percent; retain the asymmetric corridor of +200/-500 basis points around the MPR; retain the CRR at 22.5 percent and retain the Liquidity Ratio at 30 percent, ” Godwin Emefiele, Governor of the CBN said in a Communiqué. This decision comes off the back of the release of the country’s inflation rate for the month of December 2018 which increased to 11.44 percent from 11.28 percent recorded in November 2018 and 15.37 percent in December 2017. From all indications, it is worthy to note that the decision to hold on all policy parameters was not surprising to a couple of market watchers, hence limiting its impact on the market. According to Emefiele these were the considerations the Monetary Policy Committee made before arriving at leaving the rates fixed: “The Committee, considered the risks to the global economy, noting the downward revision in projected global output in 2019, the adverse impact of the trade war between the U.S and its major trading partners, likelihood of lower crude oil prices, impact on capital flows of continued monetary policy normalization by 7 major advanced economies, distorted signals on BREXIT negotiations, as well as pockets of other socio-political tensions and perceived election risks on the domestic front.” “The MPC also noted that although there was an increase in the inflation rate for the second consecutive month, month-on-month inflation continued to moderate, indicating that the year-on-year measures will also moderate in the near term. This is supported by the stability in the naira exchange rate and thus, urged the Bank to sustain this stability. In the light of the observed risk confronting the economy, including the global and domestic inflationary pressures, which have intensified the risk of currency depreciation, the MPC was of the view that a loosening option was very remote. Weighing the balance of its judgement on price stability conducive to growth, the MPC felt that tightening would result in the loss of the gains so far achieved, noting that this may drive the banks to reprice their assets; thus increasing the cost of credit as well as elevating credit risk in the economy. It will also worsen the position of non-performing loans of the banks. The Committee also felt that tightening would dampen investments and hamper improvements in output growth, given the already fragile growth performance so far achieved. According to Emefiele, forecasts for key macroeconomic indicators in 2019 portend a positive outlook for the domestic economy. Here is  the economic forecast for 2019: 