Nigeria’s Access Bank Plc which recently obtained approval from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Thursday disclosed that it would conclude its merger deal with Diamond Bank by April. This is going to happen earlier than the scheduled date of June. Speaking on a conference call on Thursday, Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank Herbert Wigwe said that since the bank has gotten the CBN’s approval, it has cancelled its planned N75 million ($207 million) rights issues as it no longer needs it to meet CBN’s minimum capital thresholds. This merger will see Access Bank’s assets increase to N6.10 trillion ($16.9 billion) thereby making it the biggest lender by asset. Currently, Zenith Bank is the largest lender with its assets worth N5.5 trillion. As at close of trading yesterday, the shares of Access Bank listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) rose by 6.2 percent to N6 while that of Diamond Bank increased by 0.5 percent to N2.10. It would be recalled that news broke in December 2018, that Access Bank agreed to acquire Carlyle-backed Diamond Bank Plc. This came after Diamond Bank announced its decision to drop its international operating licence to focus on national operations following capitalization issues. Access Bank’s Wigwe said the combination of Access Bank and Diamond Bank would ensure that “we are able to take and solve customers’ issues right from the wholesale end, down to the man in the village, just because of the use of technology.” Having attained its current status by acquiring Intercontinental Bank in 2011, Wigwe boasts of M&A expertise in the Nigerian banking industry. “For us, we have built a very strong capability as far as mergers and acquisitions are concerned. One of the benefits we have is the fact that having done it before, we have learnt from the mistakes of the past and the benefits of what had been. So, integrating Diamond Bank is going to be better than all the ones we have done in the past. The Intercontinental Bank transaction gave us the learning point we needed as far as this transaction is concerned.” Wigwe said during Access Bank World Press Conference last year. Since Herbert took over Access in 2013, he has led the bank to greater heights, positioning the bank as one of the top five banks in Nigeria, a position it has maintained since thenuntil it announced the new deal. The Bank is currently ranked among the top 1000 global banks.