World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim has announced that he will be leaving his position on February 1 more than three years ahead of his term’s expiration as boss of the international financial institution. No reason was given for Kim’s decision to step down after more than six years in the top position. World Bank presidents serve for a five-year, renewable term. “It has been a great honour to serve as President of this remarkable institution, full of passionate individuals dedicated to the mission of ending extreme poverty in our lifetime,” said Kim in a statement by the Bank. “The work of the World Bank Group is more important now than ever as the aspirations of the poor rise all over the world, and problems like climate change, pandemics, famine and refugees continue to grow in both their scale and complexity. Serving as President and helping position the institution squarely in the middle of all these challenges has been a great privilege.” Under Kim, a physician and public health advocate, the World Bank in 2012 established two goals: to end extreme poverty by 2030 and to boost shared prosperity, focusing on the bottom 40 percent of the population in developing countries. A statement by the World Bank said these goals now guide and inform the institution in its daily work around the globe. In 2017, the Bank announced a record $57 billion three-year financing for Sub-Saharan African countries. Following the announcement in March 2017, Kim visited Rwanda and Tanzania to emphasize the Bank Group’s support for the entire region. As World Bank president, Kim emphasized that one of the greatest needs in the developing world is infrastructure finance, and he pushed the Bank Group to maximize finance for development by working with a new cadre of private sector partners committed to building sustainable, climate-smart infrastructure in developing countries. He will continue on this path even as he leaves the World Bank. According to Kim, he will join a firm and focus on increasing infrastructure investments in developing countries. In addition to this, the outgoing World Bank president said he will also be re-joining the board of Partners In Health (PIH), an organization he co-founded more than 30 years ago. World Bank CEO Kristalina Georgieva will assume the role of interim President effective February 1.