An ongoing viral challenge, the ten years challenge, have been the buzz on social media, with people posting pictures taken ten years ago (mostly between 2007-2009 depending on the one users can find) and placing it next to pictures taken in 2018 and 2019. While people are comparing their before and after photos, showing the difference ten years can make and the physical changes that have occurred in ten years, its time to reflect on economies ten years after the global financial crisis, look at what is working, what has not worked, and also challenge the African continent to do more. It has been ten years since the 2008 global financial crisis and many things have changed, new technologies are springing up, some economies have stabilized while some others are still struggling to fully recover from the shocks of the crisis. The financial crisis began in the United States and it later exploded into a full-blown global crisis that plunged countries into recession. Initially, analysts predicted that Africa, mostly Sub-Saharan Africa, will not really feel the impact of the financial crisis because its financial systems were not as leveraged as it was in the United Kingdom and the United States. Even the African Development Bank (AfDB) said that few banks and investment firms in Africa had derivatives backed by sub-prime mortgages. Later on, it was discovered that Africa, especially Sub-Saharan Africa was vulnerable through trade links and the disruption of trade finance that arose from the financial crisis. The global financial crisis led to bank collapses and increased public debt (both fiscal and monetary debt). The crises eventually led to overcapacity in China and this fostered capital flows to African countries, increased loans and eventually debt. After the crises, most African countries began using fiscal and monetary policies to absorb the shock. These policies began yielding positive results but only for the medium-term balancing of the economy. A decade later, many African economies are still using the same policies. But they cannot expect to completely abate external shocks on their economies caused by the crisis over the medium term with those policies. Many African economies have not fully recovered from the impact but Africa’s largest economies, Nigeria and South Africa still suffer from the impact, especially in the form of weak commodity prices. Africa became one of the world’s fastest-growing regions in the world following the policies the continent adopted to weather the shocks. Unfortunately almost a decade later, that’s all the continent is — one of the fastest-growing regions in the world. Presently, Africa is seeing a rebound in economic activity, especially in its annual GDP growth. Collectively, African economies grew at an estimated 1.6 percent in 2009 and the growth is projected to continue to rise to 3.5 in 2019. However, the World Bank says that the growth will remain below pre-crisis averages, partly reflecting a struggle in larger economies to boost private investment. The shocks of the 2008 crisis are still reflecting in the fiscal deficits of many African economies as their governments’ find it difficult to meet their financial needs, as shown in the fiscal balance data, despite positive growth recorded on the continent. Fiscal balance as a percentage of GDP is used as an instrument to measure a government’s ability to meet its financing needs and to ensure good management of public finances. After a decade of unprecedented economic growth, not much improved in the lives of Africans. Poverty is still on the rise in Africa and it is projected to increase further. The continent is not where it was a decade ago, but not much has changed as many Africans are still wallowing in extreme poverty. A report by The World Poverty Clock shows that presently, Africa’s biggest economy, Nigeria, is the poverty capital of the world. But for India which is second place, African countries top the list of people living in extreme poverty. In addition to poverty is the mounting debt in Africa. Governments are borrowing heavily to finance public investments. Currently, the global sovereign debt has increased by 26 percent of GDP since 2007. The African debt, on the other hand, is over 50 percent of GDP.  In South Africa alone, the government debt-to-GDP ratio averaged 39.45 percent from 2000 until 2017, reaching an all-time high of 53.10 percent in 2017 from a record low of 27.80 percent in 2008. Some analysts have described Africa’s debt as a ticking time bomb saying the continent would soon plunge into a debt crisis. Another yardstick to measure in the ten-year challenge is employment. The rate of unemployment in the region remained steady between 2008 and 2018. Ten years after the financial crisis, there isn’t enough change and economic transformation. Economic growth across the continent is still vulnerable to commodity price swings, employment rates are low and poverty levels high. Although Africa is growing, it needs to do more in many areas, especially debt control as the increasing debts are weakening the economic buffers needed to respond to shocks and should there be another financial crisis, most African economies would be hit really hard.