Nigerian billionaire Aliko Dangote said his $15 billion oil refinery will be completed next year as scheduled, despite reports of possible delay until 2022. “There are quite a lot of challenges, but we’re moving,” Dangote said at a conference in Paris. “We’re still targeting next year for commissioning.” Analysts say the company’s plan to get the refinery ready by 2020 is ambitious, especially with the scale of the project. The refinery located near Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, has the capacity to process 650,000 barrels of  per day (bpd). This month, Dangote Oil Refinery Company took delivery of one of the major components of its refinery equipment, the regenerator for the Residual Fluid Catalytic cracker. The company is also expecting its Continuous Catalytic Regeneration (CCR) Reactor, one  one of the tallest in the world, which was manufactured by India’s Godrej Process Equipment, a unit of Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd. The CCR is 95 metres high and weighs approximately 703 tonnes, nine times heavier than a space shuttle. CCR is used to convert low value naptha to high value products such as petrochemicals and gasoline through various reactions. Dangote said he will export about 35 percent of the refinery’s products, while the rest will serve the local market. His company Dangote Industries had last year said the plan is to produce about 50 million litres of petrol per day and 15 million litres of diesel, but output can be changed according to demand. Nigeria has four oil refineries with a combined capacity of 445,000bpd, but none of the refineries work at full capacity, forcing the oil-rich country to import petrol to satisfy the daily consumption of its people, estimated at 50 million litre, while paying a subsidy of N24 billion ($66.3 million) monthly as subsidy to enable Nigerians buy fuel at N145 ($0.4) per litre. Dangote’s refinery is expected to help the country save millions of dollars spent on subsidy as it caters to a huge volume of daily petrol need in the country. Dangote Industries is already in talks with oil traders such as Royal Dutch Shell, Trafigura Group and Vitol Group to strike crude supply deals and have them buy refined fuel from the company. The refinery complex includes a petrochemical plant and a $2.5 billion fertiliser factory with a capacity of 3 million tonnes annually, whose first unit has been completed. The two factories are to be powered by natural gas passed via two 550 kilometre underwater pipelines. Dangote said his company will be exporting almost 2 million metric tons of urea and ammonia by next year.