Africa’s first dedicated fund for Commercial and Industrial solar energy, CrossBoundary Energy Access (CBEA)  announced its launch after the Rockefeller Foundation and Ceniarth invested in the mini-grid facility. Following the investments, CrossBoundary Energy Access noted that in the first stage of the project, the company will invest $16 million into mini-grids that will serve 170, 000 people. The mini-grids are expected to provide first-time electricity to homes and businesses, with focus on markets like Tanzania, Nigeria and Zambia which have supportive mini-grid regulatory frameworks. The International Energy Agency (IEA) discovered that 1.1 billion people living Sub-Saharan Africa have no access to electricity and mini-grids are largely an afterthought for many governments in the region. Imagining an Energy for All scenario, IEA geospatial analysis projects that, if universal electricity access was to be provided to 1.3 billion people by 2030, mini-grids would be the cheapest technology used in connecting 450 million people, two-thirds of whom will be living in sub-Saharan Africa. IEA notes, however, that with the current policies and investments, more than 670 million people globally will still be left without access to electricity in 2030, 80 percent of which will be residing in the rural areas of sub-Saharan Africa. Mini-grids are particularly well-suited for closing this gap, especially in remote areas under-served by grid infrastructure, offering an electrification option which can be faster and more affordable than extending the main grid. This is where CrossBoundary hopes to bridge the gap. CrossBoundary believes that it can serve mini-grids at a low cost to at least 100 people with no access to electricity. It also believes that private sector development and investment could accelerate the build-out of the grids served to under accessed people. According to CrossBoundary’s Head of Energy Access, Gabriel Davies, “Mini-grids are critical to achieving universal electrification in Africa at the least cost. We believe long-term project finance structures will allow mini-grids to scale. We’re building investment portfolios that will attract the long-term, infrastructure-type capital the sector needs from institutional investors.” CrossBoundary Energy Access is expected to bridge the gap to commercial scale, with the equity from impact-first investors such as Ceniarth and development-focused debt from institutions such as The Rockefeller Foundation.