OLX Group, the classified business of South Africa’s broad-based multinational internet and media group, Naspers has invested $1.16 billion to acquire a further 29.1 percent stake in Russia’s Avito, the third largest classifieds advertisement and property platform in the world.   With the $1.16 billion investment, OLX Group’s stake has risen from 70.5 percent to 99.6 percent on a fully diluted basis, with the remaining shares being held by existing management of Avito. Naspers initially invested in Avito in 2013 and it later became the largest shareholder in Avito after acquiring shares from existing shareholders including Northzone, Accel Partners and Kinnevik for $1.2 billion. Since then the company has successfully expanded into classifieds verticals and is now also a leading player in five key verticals: General goods, Auto, Real Estate, Jobs and Services. With around 35 million unique monthly visitors, 10.3 million unique daily visitors and over 8.6 billion monthly page views, Avito is one of the top ten websites by traffic in Russia today. Currently, Avito operates with a 65.4 percent EBITDA margin and has seen its listing grow by 7.4 percent to 17.46 million. Over the last six months, Avito generated sales worth $157.50 million, up from 30 percent in 2017.    For Naspers, the transaction further strengthens its position as a global leader in online classifieds. According to Bob van Dijk, Naspers Chief Executive Officer, Nasper’s decision to increase its stake in Avito “reflects our belief in the long-term prospects of this great business and the Russian Internet market.” Founded in 2006, OLX Group is a global online marketplace, operating in 45 countries. It is the largest online classified advertising company in Brazil, India, Bulgaria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Portugal and Ukraine. The company had in recent years closed down its operations in large African markets such as Nigeria, as it refocuses its business. Earlier in the year, the company invested in Aasaanjobs, the recruitment platform for blue and grey-collar jobs in India to further strengthen its jobs vertical. Naspers which has investment interest in MultiChoice, OLX, Konga and other companies, is slowly shifting it’s attention from a broader African market to focus only on South Africa. In 2018, the company shut its eCommerce platform OLX in Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana. In the same year, the company sold its stake in Nigerian B2C marketplace Konga, to Zinox Technologies. This 2019, the company announced it was shutting down its online job portal in Nigeria after, Careers 24 after 5 years. The shut down will take effect from March 1, 2019.  