Gathering a thousand people in one place, demanding their audience, communicating with them and finally getting them to act, a person would have been required to put in months of work, promotions/ adverts, spend a lot of money on microphone and speakers without the guarantee of a 100-person audience from the same community, let alone a thousand scattered in different countries and time zones. Fortunately, social media has broken those barriers and made things easier to accomplish in a very short amount of time. With the social media, people can now have meaningful conversations, meet new people, tell stories, consume news and even set national agendas that would trend, spur people to act and react and eventually disrupt the society. Agenda setting has always been a powerful tool of the media, but with social media platforms like WeChat, Facebook, Whatsapp, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn etc, the world has become a global village where anyone, no matter the age, can head the village with the right kind of conversation. The challenge, however, is that people abuse social media, especially as it is a faceless society where the identity of a person can be hidden. Some become keyboard warriors, keyboard town criers and keyboard analysts who just put out information to be consumed by the general public without fact-checking. Should this information bring disrepute to others, be proven to be false or be in any way malicious, the people behind the screen fail to take responsibility for their actions. But with great influence comes great responsibility. This is especially true on social media, where the stories people tell, consume and share has the potential to shape them and others, as well as tailor what they and others become. With this, the 2019 Social Media Week which would take place in Nigeria’s most populous state, Lagos State, from February 4 to 8, would discuss the theme STORIES: With Great Influence Comes Great Responsibility. The overreaching power of the social media can never be overstated. As of 2018, the number of social media users globally was 3.2 billion, up 13 percent year-on-year and it is projected that by 2020 almost 5 billion people will be connected. Meaning that social media has become the world’s most influential storytelling platform. Be it news, posts, podcasts or vodcasts, the stories we tell through social media has the power to reach and potentially influence more than 60 percent of people on the planet. This was the situation in Kenya in 2013 and 2019. On September 21, 2013, a group of militants launched a brutal attack on the Westgate Shopping Center at the heart of Westlands. In that singular attack nothing less than 67  persons, civilians and personnel, were killed. Although the sound of the gunshots fired by the militants and wailing of people could be heard from Westlands and its surroundings, the information on the attack first broke on social media and it was able to reach a global audience as well as gather a lot of support through social media. The same goes for the January 16, 2019 attack on the Dusit complex in the very same Westland district. A 2011 research by Portland and Tweetminster discovered that Kenya was Africa’s second most active country on Twitter. By 2015, the country dropped two places to the fourth position, with 76 million active users. The country’s social media activity became its blessing and its curse as the pictures and videos which were used to create awareness and seek for help became a tool of grief shaming in the hands of American paper, the New York Times, which published gory images of dead Kenyans and refused to take it down despite complains by comrades of the victims. Previously, one would have had to whisper for fear of being stigmatized but with the social media, a simple whisper is a loud scream that gathers similar voices, judges and historians from all parts of the world. It was also social media that popularized the movement against sexual harassment and sexual assault, as the hashtag #MeToo spread on social media to demonstrate the widespread prevalence of sexual assault and harassment, especially in the workplace.  Social media has brought down powerful people like Hollywood’s Harvey Weinstein from great heights after voices began to rise against his past sexual assaults and harassment. Thankfully, there are two sides of a coin. For there to be an upside, there definitely is a downside and this also applies to social media. Social media use has been linked with depression, particularly among young people. A study noted that teenagers who spend above five hours daily on electronic devices are 71 percent more likely to commit suicide than those who spend less than an hour a day. This became obvious on Nigerian Twitter (a term used to refer to Twitter users who are Nigerians or based in Nigeria) when #Asiwaju began to trend. On Nigerian Twitter, rape accusations were levelled by members of the Twitter community against Michael Asiwaju, the founder of Asiwaju Royal Furniture. A week after the historians on the twitter community released details of his alleged crimes, Asiwaju threatened to commit suicide. Many urged him to do so quickly without hesitation and many other self-acclaimed social media judges said he deserved to die. Finally, Asiwaju made an attempt on his own life. Realising the influence of social media and the lengths stories people tell on social media can consume and shape others, Social Media Week Lagos holding at Landmark Center, a state of the art event space in Lagos hopes to discuss ways people can take responsibility for their social posts. TheNerve Africa will also host corporate and marketing communications professionals in Nigeria at its session during the SMW Lagos event where the topic Thought Leadership and the Changing Rules of Content Marketing will be discussed. The professionals participating in TheNerve Africa’s session will have the pleasure of listening to Oyinade Adegite, head of Corporate Communications at Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank), Omotola Oyebanjo, head of Corporate Communications at Lafarge and Idy Enang, CEO Corporate Shepherds. The three brand, corporate and marketing communications heavyweights will be discussing topic to be moderated by Founder and Practice director at AML Emilia Asim.