When agricultural output in South Africa fell 29.2 percent in the second quarter of 2018, it contributed to the fall of Africa’s most developed economy into recession. The sector also played a role in the third quarter recovery of the South African economy. Hence, agriculture is very important to South Africa and the government will continue to work hard at the continuous growth of the sector. One such effort is a new agreement with India in the fields of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. South Africa and India made the commitment during a bilateral meeting between South Africa’s Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Senzeni Zokwana and Indian Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Parshottam Rupala, in New Delhi, India last week. The meeting was a culmination of technical discussions which took place at the 4th Joint Working Group on Agriculture between the two countries. During the meeting, Zokwana and Rupala recognised the importance of agriculture to the economies of their respective countries, and committed to continue deepening bilateral trade in agricultural commodities. South Africa gained market access for persimmons and mangoes in 2016. Work is currently at an advanced stage to gain market access for avocados, litchis and pickled sheep and goat skins. The ministers also agreed to work together on mutual food and security initiatives directed towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with specific reference to SDG 1 – addressing poverty; SDG 2 – addressing hunger; and sharing their experiences in the development of drought resistant varieties and bio-fortified varieties. They also agreed on convening an inaugural bilateral seminar on extension. The seminar will be a platform to share best practices and set a new bilateral agenda on extension and technology transfer. South Africa will host the first seminar, where a joint action plan will be crafted. In strengthening the marketing of commodities, the National Agricultural Marketing Council of South Africa and the National Institute of Agriculture Marketing of India will sign a Memorandum of Understanding.