Waking up one fine Thursday morning in November 2018 to 650,000 people protesting was more than Tunisia’s President, Beji Caid Essebsi had bargained for. Understandably, the 92-year president had refused to increase the salaries of public sector workers by 205 to 270 dinars ($73-$97). But how could he? Considering the economic situation in the country and the commitment the government had made to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to reduce public spending, a dilemma the public sector workers and the unions that back them do not want to hear of. In November 2018, 650,000 public sector workers in Tunisia went on strike and thousands joined in protests across the country. These aggrieved workers were showing their annoyance over the government’s refusal to increase wages at a time when international lenders threatened to stop financing Tunisia’s tattered economy. That was the biggest strike action in five years as schools, universities, municipalities and ministries were shut and hospitals had only emergency staffing in the nationwide walkout organized by the Tunisian General Labour Union (UGTT). This year, the strike is set to get bigger. To probably appease the striking union, the country’s Minister of Social Affairs Mohamed Trabelsi said in a December 27 statement to private radio Shems FM that the government has submitted a proposal to increase public service wages by 40 to 80 dinars ($14-$27), 165 to 190 dinars short of the workers’ requests. President Chahed told the private Attessia TV channel on December 21, that “It is not in our intention to defer the issue of wage increases. All we are seeking to do is to save public finances in light of the exceptional economic circumstances.” This did not go down well with the workers who took to the streets again on January 17. This time, more than 670,000 government workers participated in the nationwide strike and it was considered a success because it disrupted the airport, the transport sector and other public facilities like schools and banks. Yet, an agreement is yet to be reached and an another strike beckons. The UGTT on January 19, announced its plan to hold a general strike on February  20 and 21 2019 If they do not reach an agreement with Prime Minister Youssef Chahed’s government on a salary increase for public servants. Meanwhile, Abdel Jabbar al-Madouri, a political analyst and media figure thinks that the present government will collapse under pressure. He told middle-east focused news platform Al-Monitor that Chahed’s government is faced with a terrible dilemma. It cannot increase wages, given its commitment to the IMF to reduce public spending, while it has to, at some point, yield to the protesters’ demands. “The government will likely collapse under the pressure of the social and union movements and protests,” he said. Tunisia has been praised for being the only democratic country of the Arab Spring to successfully topple a long-serving leader without triggering widespread violence or civil war. Since the overthrow of autocrat Zine El-Abidine Ben Ali, Tunisia has had nine governments. Unfortunately, none has been able to get the economy back on its feet, as anger over rising unemployment and poverty has toppled the government’s unpopular reforms to reduce its budget deficit.