South Africa’s investments and concessions company, Group Five, has sold its manufacturing assets, Everite and Sky Sands, to a consortium comprising of private equity companies, Trinitas Private Equity and Agile Capital, for R480 million ($34.74 million), as the company struggles to remain afloat. The company which engages in investments and concessions; manufacturing, and engineering; as well as construction businesses in South Africa and internationally is restructuring and disposing its non-core assets, including those in the better-performing manufacturing cluster, hence the sale of Everite and Sky Sands. In the 2018 financial year, only the investment and concessions, as well as the manufacturing clusters generated free cash flow. However, the company is looking to leave the manufacturing space. In 2007, Group Five entered into an agreement to acquire 100 percent of plaster firm Sky Sands for R124 million ($8.97 million). The acquisition of Sky Sands was an expansion and growth strategy to assist in the mitigation of risk in case of future materials shortages. So far, Group Five has been struggling to survive.  Early last year, Group Five reported a 26.2 percent drop in revenue to R7.3 billion ($528.86 million) from R9.9 billion ($716.90) for the year to June. The operating loss drastically increased to R1.4 billion ($101.36 million) from R718 million ($51.98 million) and by the end of the 2018 financial year, the company reported a R1.3 billion ($94.23 million) annual loss. The company’s woes began when the government decided to reduce its spending budget and outlined the infrastructure and manufacturing sector as its focus. Presently, Group Five is still struggling to complete a power-station development called Kpone in Ghana, which has already racked up losses of R1.3 billion ($ 94.06). For the struggling company to stay afloat, it decided to shift its focus away from building roads/ infrastructure and is concluding the manufacturing assets. Group Fives Chief Executive Themba Mosai said, “To survive, Group Five has to shift its focus away from what has been its bread and butter for years. The group will now instead focus on specialist businesses such as toll management and commercial property investment.” Mosai also said that the company’s new strategy entails a “decreased focus” on engineering procurement and construction. Everite Machine Products is the world’s leader in advanced ElectroChemical Grinding (ECG) and machining technology. Everite has served the manufacturing industry for over 20 years, producing high precision, high volume machined components. Sky Sands, on the other hand, is involved in the supply of plaster and washed sand products; building materials; and precast concrete products. Sky Sands has exploitable sand reserves estimated to be in excess of 25 years of production. The sale of Everite and Sky Sands would be completed in the second half of 2019.