In Nigeria, university students have been out of school for months as their lecturers are on strike. Over the last 20 years, the Nigerian university system has lost about three years to industrial action at the expense of students who end up spending more time in school and eventually graduate only to join millions of other unemployed youths in waiting for scarce opportunity for better lives. What students of government-owned universities in Nigeria go through is an example of several other downside risks of growing inequality, which has made it difficult to deliver universal health, education and other public services. “The size of your bank account should not dictate how many years your children spend in school, or how long you live – yet this is the reality in too many countries across the globe,” said Winnie Byanyima, Executive Director of anti-poverty campaigner Oxfam International. According to a new report by Oxfam, global wealth inequality widened last year, with billionaires increasing their fortunes by $2.5 billion per day and 12 percent in the year. During the same period, the poorest half of people in the world saw the little they had fall by 11 percent. In 2018, the top 26 wealthiest people in the world owned $1.4 trillion, which is as much as the 3.8 billion poorest people owned. The number of billionaires has doubled since the financial crisis, but they are enjoying lower tax rates than they have in decades, the report said. “The human costs – children without teachers, clinics without medicines – are huge,” Oxfam noted. “Piecemeal private services punish poor people and privilege elites.” It added that the growing gap between rich and poor is undermining the fight against poverty, which the world hopes to win by 2030. Inequality is also damaging economies and fueling public anger across the globe as we have seen in recent uprising in some parts of Africa. Oxfam argues that inequality is a choice. “By taxing wealth more fairly, enough money could be raised globally to ensure that every child goes to school and no one is bankrupted by the cost of medical treatment for their families.” The anti-poverty organisation recommends that the richest people and corporations pay their fair share of tax, claiming that it will drive a dramatic reduction in the gap between rich and poor and between women and men. But in a capitalist world, will there be an end to inequality? Jerry Muller’s article (subscription) in a 2013 issue of Foreign Policy showed why it would be difficult. The professor of History and author of The Mind and the Market: Capitalism in Western Thought does not blame inequality on the inequality of opportunities, but rather blamed it on the inability of some people to exploit the available opportunities that capitalism offers. “The inequality that exists today, therefore, derives less from the unequal availability of opportunity than it does from the unequal ability to exploit opportunity. And that unequal ability, in turn, stems from differences in the inherent human potential that individuals begin with and in the ways that families and communities enable and encourage that human potential to flourish,” Muller wrote. While he agrees that increasing inequality and insecurity are downsides that come with capitalism, Muller stressed that capitalism offers remarkable benefits and continually greater opportunities for self-cultivation and personal development. He offered three possible cures for inequality, including income redistribution, “offering preferential treatment to underperformers” and encouraging continued economic innovation. But for the three cures he proposed, he added reasons why they will not significantly reduce socioeconomic inequality and insecurity. “For capitalism to continue to be made legitimate and palatable to populations at large, […] government safety nets that help diminish insecurity, alleviate the sting of failure in the marketplace, and help maintain equality of opportunity will have to be maintained and revitalized,” Muller wrote. Nick Hanauer, who contributed to Oxfam’s report calls himself a practictioner of capitalism. The entrepreneur and venture capitalist, who says he was the first outside investor in Amazon, said the most important lesson he learned from his decades of experience with market capitalism is that “morality and justice are the fundamental prerequisites for prosperity and economic growth”, adding; “Greed is not good.” But economists, politicians and the media say otherwise, he said. “This exclusive, highly unequal society based on extreme wealth for the few may seem sturdy and inevitable right now, but eventually it will collapse. Eventually the pitchforks will come out, and the ensuing chaos will not benefit anyone – not wealthy people like me, and not the poorest people who have already been left behind,” Hanauer said. He submitted that the richest in society can afford more tax and and should pay a lot more to help build a more equal society and prosperous economy. “Ultimately it is our humanity, not the absence of it, that is the true source of economic growth and a flourishing civilization,” he said.