It is true that Africa faces the fundamental challenges of poverty and unemployment. Rather than dwelling on the obvious problems, it’s time we praised the pioneering African economies that have risen, against all odds,  to tackle the unemployment challenge crippling the continent. It is time others took cues from them to end the menace. Finding, getting and keeping a job in Africa is very difficult. The phenomenon of unemployment in this continent affects about 32 million young people who account for 60 percent of Africa’s jobless. In sub-Saharan Africa where the unemployment rate has remained flat at an average of 7.3 percent since 2008, three African countries have been able to maintain a minimal employment rate below 2 percent. When pointing a finger at African countries with high employment rate, remember to point the remaining four fingers at Niger whose unemployment rate remained unchanged at 0.40 percent in the past eight years.  The unemployment rate in Niger averaged 2.41 percent from 1991 until 2017, reaching an all-time high of 5.10 percent in 1994 and a record low of 0.30 percent in 2011. The Landlocked West African country with a population not less than 20.67 million depends on subsistence farming, livestock and Uranium exports. Niger is Africa’s most important uranium ore exporter and the country has an annual growth rate averaging 3.25 percent. With a land area of almost 1,270,000 km2 (490,000 sq mi), the largest country in West Africa has been able to keep its unemployment at bay. Madagascar has also managed to keep most of its youth off the streets and into the labour force. The unemployment rate in Madagascar remained unchanged at 1.80 percent in 2017 from 1.80 percent in 2016. Unemployment rate in Madagascar averaged 3.89 percent from 1991 until 2017, reaching an all time high of 5.80 percent in 1992 and a record low of 0.60 percent in 2012. A highly skilled person in Madagascar earns MGA829.6 thousand ($230.40) monthly, while a low skilled persons wages are MGA324.9 thousand ($90.23). Overall, the living family wage is MGA672 thousand ($186.63)and the individual living wage averaged MGA351.1 thousand ($97.79).   The huge island nation off the southeast coast of Africa has a population of 25.57 million and an annual GDP growth rate of 2 percent. Another country is Togo, which has for a very long time, maintained its unemployment rate at 1.8 percent. One thing is certain, poverty and political instability may be an issue in the West African country, but unemployment is sure not one of Togo’s challenges as more than 60 percent of the 7.798 million in Togo are employed. Compared to the percentage of employed people in Togolese, less than 3 percent is unemployed even though a whopping 35 percent is underemployed. Togo is one of the poorest countries in the world and about 81.2
percent of Togo’s rural population live below the global poverty line. In terms of employment and the economy, economists argue that the flexibility of the labour market determines the natural rate of unemployment in a country. They reckon that the natural unemployment rate is mainly determined by supply, as well as a combination of frictional and structural unemployment that persists in an efficient, expanding economy when labour and resource markets are in equilibrium. One of the characteristics of the Togolese population is its high growth rate, a reflection of its extremely young population. The economy of the phosphate-exporting nation is expanding at an average of 4 percent and though the country is yet to find a balance in many areas, it has successfully kept its unemployment at the lowest possible level, with its population growing at 5 percent. Togo has a mixed economy in which agriculture and the service sector are the backbone of the economy. More than 60 percent of Togolese are engaged in traditional subsistence agriculture and are employed in small-scale farming. Others have delved into entrepreneurship, creating more jobs for the population. As of 2014, it is reported that 87 percent of the job opportunities in the country are in the informal sector. Instead of being jobless while waiting for a skilled/highly paying job, the government has devised an inclusive means that would increase its working population; investing in entrepreneurship. The monthly wages of high skilled workers stand at XOF196600 ($342) while the monthly wages of low skilled workers stand at XOF33300 ($57.9). To maintain a low unemployment rate has been deliberate for the government of Togo which came up with various job-creation initiatives like the Programme d’Appui au Développement à la Base (PRADEB); Agence Nationale pour la Promotion et de Garantie de Financement (ANPGF); Appui à l’Insertion et au Développement de l’Embauche (AIDE); Projet d’Appui à l’Insertion Professionnelle des Jeunes Artisans (PAIPJA); and the Programme Emploi des Jeunes (PEJ), all funded by international organizations. Entrepreneurship is said to have a direct relationship with economic growth and a positive effect on innovation. Innovative efforts by businesses spur economic growth, drive competition and create employment. By developing the entrepreneurial skills of its people, the Togolese government is reducing youth unemployment, boosting the informal sector and invariably growing the economy. The informal sector represents 20-30 percent of Togo’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Another huge employment driver in Togo is its seaport. There is a positive relationship between seaport investment, job creation and economic growth. According to the United Nations, maritime activity has a key role to play in the alleviation of extreme poverty and hunger as it provides an important source of income and employment. Presently, Togo’s Lome port is  the leading container port in West Africa. Container traffic at the port of Lome has grown more than three-fold since 2013, from 311,000 Twenty-Foot Equivalent Units (TEUs) in 2013 to nearly 1,200,000 TEU in 2017, data from Dynamar, a Dutch maritime intelligence and consulting firm, show. In the last five years, the port has grown by 283 percent. The port alone is a source of income and employment for many Togolese who work in ship recycling, shipbuilding and repairs. With the informal sector being an important driver in the economy, more jobs are created, and many are employed. However, with the individual living wage in Togo estimated at XOF110,200 ($191.7), more effort needs to be put into skills development and opportunities for skilled employment expanded.