Zimbabwe, a landlocked country in southern Africa is currently facing its worst economic crisis in a decade. This comes almost a year after its former president, Robert Mugabe was ousted after more than three decades of being in power.  Emmerson Mnangagwa who most Zimbabweans thought would perform better is yet to save the country. There is also an ongoing protest in the country over the hike in fuel prices which has turned deadly.  Businesses and school activities, and public transport vehicles have been grounded in most areas of the country despite the government’s assurances to provide security for the people. Mthuli Ncube, a former lecturer at the London School of Economics, who was appointed as the country’s finance and Economic Development minister before things deteriorated into a protest, has not been able to make expected impact. Following his appointment, Ncube came up with a strategy known as  “stabilisation programme” to help save the country. This strategy has been criticized by a lot of Zimbabweans, with some claiming it would take them back to where they were during Mugabe’s regime. According to a Bloomberg interview with Ncube at the World  Economic Forum Davos, this is how the government is tackling the country’s economic crisis: Ncube said Zimbabwe was looking everywhere to get bailout loans. The country approached its neigbour and Africa’s most advanced economy South Africa last year, but the latter turned Zimbabwe’s $1.2 billion loan request, with National Treasury spokesman Jabulani Sikhakhane saying  “South Africa doesn’t have that kind of money”. Now, the government is hoping to approach three private-sector credit providers that will give Zimbabwe a couple of credit facilities of about $500 million and also work with them in providing fuel. With regards to inflation, Ncube said Zimbabwe will ensure that there is fiscal discipline by cutting back on government expenditure. Zimbabwe is dealing with the issue of budget deficit which caused the current economic crisis plaguing the country. Ncube said that the country is making sure it moves from double digits to single digit by the end of 2019. Zimbabwe is working to clear what it owes its preferred creditors, the World Bank and the African Development Bank. Following discussions with these institutions, it would proceed to work in negotiating with the Paris Club. The Southern Africa country also wants to ensure that there is fiscal discipline by ensuring compliance on the revenue collection front, building the micro-institutions for full monetary policy conduct, making sure a framework for inflation targeting and growth targeting is put in place. Ncube went further to say it’s painful that  there are protests, but they have to stay on course, implying that the fuel price hike which led to current protests in the country may not be reversed.