Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa and Tanzania are some of the African countries whose leaders have been vocal about their anti-corruption stance, but their fight against corruption is apparently not yielding enough results, as shown in the latest Corruption Perception Index (CPI) by anti-corruption group Transparency International (TI). The index, which ranks 180 countries and territories by their perceived levels of public sector corruption according to experts and businesspeople, uses a scale of 0 to 100, where 0 is highly corrupt and 100 is very clean. Nigeria, whose President Muhammadu Buhari won the 2015 poll riding on his promise to fight corruption, recorded a score of 27 in 2018, the same score recorded a year earlier. With Nigerians perceiving their new leader to be a man of integrity who would not condone corruption in any way, Nigeria recorded a marginal increase in its CPI score to 28 in 2016, but that dropped to 27 in 2017. The Nigerian government has been accused of nepotism and shielding members of the ruling party from being prosecuted on allegations of corruption. In Kenya, President Uhuru Kenyatta has frequently maintained his resolve to fight corruption in the East African country, but Kenyans remain skeptical about his resolve, with many saying the president has always been big on talk without matching it with action. Although some public officers have been arrested on corruption allegations, but no politicians have been arrested so far. Many believe the real corruption happens in the inner corridors of power and Kenyatta knows. The country’s CPI score fell to 27 in 2018 from 2017’s score of 28. President Cyril Ramaphosa set up a judicial commission of inquiry to look into allegations of State Capture, corruption and fraud. There has been some progress, with several allegations made by witnesses against top officials and former President Jacob Zuma. The country’s CPI score remained at 43 in 2018 but it could improve if some of the corruption allegations are proven and those involved sentenced. Tanzania’s President John Magufuli got to work early in his fight against corruption and Tanzanians acknowledged it with the country’s CPI score increasing to 36 in 2017 from 32 a year earlier, but the score remained the same in 2018 with many saying that the ‘Bulldozer’ now uses his anti-corruption crusade to crack down on opponents. According to Transparency International, Seychelles is Africa’s least corrupt country, with a steady rise in its CPI score over the last four years. the country ranked 28th in the world, with a score of 66. It is followed by Rwanda which ranked 48th in the world and second in Africa with a CPI score of 56. South Sudan and Somalia remain the most corrupt countries in Africa, according to the index, with Somalia’s score of 10 also making it the most corrupt country in the world. The index “reveals that the continued failure of most countries to significantly control corruption is contributing to a crisis in democracy around the world,” TI notes. “While there are exceptions, the data shows that despite some progress, most countries are failing to make serious inroads against corruption.”