African countries signed a landmark trade agreement in March 2018, they called it the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AfCFTA). It commits countries to removing tariffs on 90 percent of goods, as well as allow free access to commodities, goods, and services across the continent. If successfully implemented, the agreement create a single African market with more than one billion consumers and a GDP of more than $3 trillion. The United Nations Economic Commission for Africa estimates that the agreement will boost intra-African trade by 52 percent by 2022. However, Nigeria, the continent’s largest economy, which played an active role at the initial stages of the deal, but pulled out at the last minute, is one of the few countries yet to sign the agreement. Nigeria’s President Buhari said the country’s reluctance is based on fears that it could hurt Nigerian entrepreneurship and industry. But with 18 of 22 countries needed for the agreement to come into force already signed, Nigeria might be leaving itself out in the cold. In a new report, research group Brookings Institution, listed the top priorities for Africa in 2019. One of the priorities, according to the report is Boosting trade and investment. This part of the report authored by Vera Songwe Executive Secretary – Economic Commission on Africa (ECA), focused on the AfCTA. #AfCFTA:18 out of required 22 ratifications confirmed. Chad, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Eswatini, Ghana,Guinea,Kenya,Mali,Mauritania, Namibia, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa,Togo, Uganda lead the way.Only 4 left.Make sure yr country joins the pioneers ! — Ebba Kalondo (@EbbaKalondo) January 12, 2019  According to Songwe, the scope of the agreement exceeds that of a traditional free trade area. “The AfCFTA is complemented by other continental initiatives, including the Protocol on Free Movement of Persons, Right to Residence and Right to Establishment, and the Single African Air Transport Market (SAATM),” she notes. Citing modelling results from the ECA, Songwe notes that the AfCFTA will increase the value of intra-African exports. “AfCFTA will be a game changer for stimulating intra-African trade. It is projected, through the sole removal of tariffs on goods, to increase the value of intra-African trade by between 15 percent (or $50 billion) and 25 percent (or $70 billion), depending on liberalization efforts, in 2040, compared to a situation with no AfCFTA in place.” With the February 16 presidential election the main focus in Nigeria at the moment, the country may not be part of the AfCTA if it comes into force in February and may lose out on the expected benefits of the agreement, but Nigeria’s fears are valid. According to Songwe, recent evidence by the ECA shows that manufactured goods make up a much higher proportion of regional exports than those leaving the continent—41.9 compared to 14.8 percent in 2014. “Nigeria’s infrastructural deficit, and insecurity are major challenges that could hamper production in the country,” notes Dr. Ikpenmosa Uhumuavbi, an International Finance expert and lecturer at Bolton University Law School. “The availability of skills for the job is also a major concern. Nigeria has not provided sufficient ecosystems to attract, incubate and accelerate businesses.” “High transaction cost within Nigeria may lead to cheaper imports from the bloc or other markets,” he adds, stressing that “this may put local manufacturers out of business and increase Nigeria’s import dependency.” Uhumuavbi explains that looking at some terms of the agreement more specifically, Nigeria is particularly concerned that joining the bloc could affect its revenue from taxes “This is especially taxes from multinationals,” he says. “The tariff-free environment means that companies can operate from more favourable environments and freely export finished goods to other States within the bloc.” “Although Nigeria remains the largest economy in Africa, the economy of scale and other advantages that comes with tariff-free intra and inter Africa trade may affect competitiveness of Nigerian businesses on the continent,” Uhumuavbi adds. He agrees that the disadvantages of Nigeria not being part of the agreement outweighs the advantages, but he thinks there’s need to strike a balance. Therefore, he suggests that the country works on devices to protect key sectors and industries such as oil and gas, agriculture and agro-processing. “These are areas with highest potentials for our economy,” he says. “Nigeria should assemble trade and investment experts, facilitators and all stakeholders to come up with quick solutions. This is decision time. Delay is dangerous.” As at November, Nigeria was still consulting stakeholders to ensure that concerns and challenges are addressed. “Nigeria as Africa’s biggest market is most likely to benefit the most or lose the most from the AfCFTA,” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said at a trade forum in November. Nigerian industrialist Aliko Dangote also said “Nigeria did not rush to sign the agreement because there are consequences and Nigeria has some big industries”, his Dangote Group inclusive. “Industrialisation brings in a lot of wealth and prosperity. Nigeria is not against the AfCFTA but we are only saying let us do things right with a solid foundation,” he added. While the Nigerian government has insisted that the country will join the AfCTA, but at the right time, it is uncertain how soon the country will make its decision. Finance Minister Zainab Ahmed while speaking at an event organised by Deloitte Nigeria last week, could only express hope that the long term impact of AfCFTA on Nigeria would outweigh the short term revenue impact. The skepticism that seeped through her statement mirrors how many people in charge of decision making as regards the AfCTA feels about Nigeria’s immediate involvement. However, it is important to note that most of the points made by the Nigerian authorities about how signing the agreement as it is, can affect the country, are valid but the defects in the system did not begin with the AfCTA. If anything, it should be a reality check for the country on how urgently it needs to fix the system. As things stand, Ghana is in a better position to benefit from AfCTA than Nigeria. Nigeria’s West African neighbour has over the years worked to position itself as a manufacturing hub in the region. It is also attracting foreign investors better than Nigeria these days. The manufacturing industry in Ghana, a country with about the same population as Lagos, Nigeria’s commercial capital, added 10.89 percent to its GDP in 2017. Nigeria could only manage 8.74 percent. The same industry added 20.26 percent to Nigeria’s GDP in 1981 when it only added 5.97 percent to the Ghanaian economy. While there may be no quick fixes to Nigeria’s challenges, avoiding the AfCTA is definitely not one of the best ways for the country to protect its economy. “Pulling out will be suicidal,” Dr Uhumuavbi says. “The only option open to Nigeria is to engage very quickly. Extract assurances and protection of some key sectors and industries as highlighted above, then ratify it.”