MultiChoice Group Ltd. (MCG) debuted on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange on Wednesday, February 27, following a spin off by tech giant Naspers Ltd. which made its intention to list MCG known last year. The listed entity includes MultiChoice South Africa (MCSA), MultiChoice Africa Holdings (MAH), Showmax, global digital platform security provider Irdeto, and all their subsidiaries and affiliates. The shares of MCG which opened trading at R95.50 ($6.89) gained 16 percent to  R111.12 by 11am valuing the company at close to R50 billion. Although, the shares later dipped to R109.86 per share at 1:32pm local time. “Today’s listing is an important milestone in our exciting journey of growth,” said Calvo Mawela, Multichoice Group CEO. “As one of the fastest growing pay-TV broadcast providers globally, our strong financial position at listing is backed by attractive long-term growth opportunities in both subscriber numbers and revenue. MCG has a highly cash generative core with no financial debt, and we are poised to deliver value to our shareholders over time.” A statement by the company said the listing and impending unbundling of MCG by Naspers Limited reinforces the commitment of both companies to broad, socio-economic transformation in South Africa. Phuthuma Nathi (PN) shareholders will be allocated an additional 5 percent stake in MultiChoice South Africa (MCSA) for no consideration, thereby increasing their indirect interest in MCSA from 20 percent to 25 percent, and result in a 25 percent increase in PN’s share of MultiChoice dividend flows. “Through PN, MCSA has provided long-term, far-reaching benefits to 90,000 individual and institutional B-BBEE shareholders, with a return on investment of approximately 17 times since inception,” the company said. Multichoice’s PN shares, Phuthuma Nathi 1 Investments and Phuthuma Nathi Investments 2, are among the most successful Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) schemes in South Africa. “Listing MultiChoice Group via an unbundling aims to unlock value for Naspers shareholders and at the same time create an empowered, top 40 JSE-listed African entertainment company,” Naspers CEO Bob van Dijk said. “As MultiChoice Group embarks on its next exciting chapter I look forward to seeing the team build further on their impressive success story,” he added.