In Rwanda, mobile phones are popular. In fact, more than 70 percent of Rwandans have them, but the same cannot be said for smartphones. To boost mobile technology penetration, ensure the use of digital devices and meet the rising demand of the African market, the country is planning on opening a smartphone factory, the first of such in Africa. According to the country’s Minister for ICT and Innovation, Paula Ingabire, Rwanda is in talks with Mara Corporation, a Pan-African technology company, to establish the phone factory and by April 2019, activities should already have begun in the country. “once the factory starts producing smartphones, people will be paying in instalments over a period of 24 months. We also have to work with telecommunication companies to seek ways of reducing prices on internet use, which will boost ICT penetration and digital services,” said the Minister. In the first quarter of 2018, the Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority released a report showing that the rate of mobile telephone penetration in Rwanda climbed to 76.6 percent in March. Hopefully, with the new factory, smartphones can become cheaper, more affordable, to enable more Rwandans have it. Technology has boosted Rwanda’s financial inclusion from 48 percent in 2008 to 89 percent in 2016. Smartphone is not the only digital technology Rwanda is advancing in. Telemedicine is also the country’s forte. In 2016, the world’s first and only national-scale commercial medical drone delivery service in Rwanda started and the East African country became the first country in the world to incorporate drone technology into its health care system for delivering blood and medical supplies to hospitals across its Southern and Western provinces.Last week, East Africa’s first design lab was launched in Kigali, Rwanda’s capital city. The lab provides space for product designers, engineers, scientists and stakeholders to explore the application of emerging technologies to solve Africa’s public health, education, governance and private sector challenges.