Growth, like many other things, is relative but when it comes to the economy, there are generally accepted standards to measure growth. Productivity, Gross Domestic Product (GDP), Gross National Product (GNP) and technological advancements are some of the yardsticks used to measure the inter-related system of human labour, exchange and consumption that is broadly summed up to be the economy. When a whole group of economic actors can produce goods and services more efficiently, the economy is said to be growing and growing economies have the ability to turn less into more faster, making it easier to achieve a certain standard of living. This year, the economy of Africa as a continent, is projected by the World Bank to rise to 3.5 percent from 3.2 percent growth witnessed in 2018. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) also has high hopes for Africa, predicting that there will be a general improvement in economic growth. However, these improvements would be more is some countries than in others. Here are the fastest growing economies in Africa. Top of the list is Ethiopia. Ethiopia is Africa’s second most populated country and was forecast to be the fastest growing economy in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2018. With the rate at which the country is growing, it is still top of the list this year. Ethiopia’s economy experienced strong, broadbased growth averaging 10.3 percent per year from 2006/07 to 2016/17, compared to the regional average of 5.4 percent. Ethiopia is expected to grow by 8.5 percent this fiscal year, according to the economic outlook for Africa, published by the IMF. The economic growth is felt across different sectors and there has been a significant reduction in poverty and improved living standards for many in Ethiopia. The country has invested heavily in infrastructure and providing education and significant healthcare to its citizens. Its 100 million people are beginning to enjoy improved wellbeing. All these combined have made the horn of African country one of the fastest growing economies on the continent. Rwanda has also been able to maintain a steady growth rate during the last 18 years. The East African country maintained a 7.2 percent annual GDP growth in 2018 and it is expected to witness a further growth to 7.8 percent this year. Since the early 2000s, Rwanda has witnessed an economic boom, improving the living standards of many Rwandans. The country is advancing technologically and is in talks to build the first African smartphone factory. Technology has boosted Rwanda’s financial inclusion from 48 percent in 2008 to 89 percent in 2016 and the country now uses drone technology in its healthcare system to deliver blood and medical supplies to hospitals in different parts of the country. According to the 2019 World Bank Doing Business index, Rwanda is the 29th easiest place to do business in the world. The country is not there yet but it has come a long way and if it maintains its growth rate, the 39 percent of the 12 million population that live below the poverty line would be a thing of the past. Ghana saw an improved performance in 2018 after a difficult 2016 and the West African country is expected to witness a better 2019, with an annual GDP growth of 7.6 percent from 6.3 percent in 2018. The country’s service sector is doing well, fiscal consolidation is paying off and the country has made good progress in macro-stabilization. Ghana is an economic powerhouse in West Africa with a GDP size of approximately $51 billion and is among the fastest growing African economies.