Blackstone has abandoned plans to invest $2.5 billion through Black Rhino, the African infrastructure company it acquired in 2014, joining a growing list of investors who are leaving Africa for lack of “big enough companies”. The world’s largest private-equity (PE) firm had through Black Rhino partnered with Dangote Industries, owned by Nigerian billionaire Aliko Dangote, to invest up to $5 billion over five years in energy infrastructure projects across Africa. However, Black Rhino has struggled to find large deals that Blackstone wanted to finance, due, majorly, to competition from Chinese companies, the Wall Street Journal reports, citing people familiar with the situation. Hence, about a year ago, Blackstone agreed to sell Black Rhino Group back to its management team for an undisclosed amount, WSJ further reports citing a Blackstone spokeswoman. The deal which is only becoming public is yet to close. Blackstone has also sold the rights to develop and operate  540 megawatt Qua Iboe Power Plant (QIPP) in southern Nigeria for an undisclosed amount to Globeleq, a British company that owns power plants across Africa. Globeleq, controlled by the United Kingdom’s Development Finance Institution CDC Group is reported to have been funding the project for the last one year, with a Nigerian governor interested in the project saying Globeleq had committed equity funding of $350 million. The details of the sale of Black Rhino Group, whose chairman is former Central Bank of Nigeria governor, now Emir of Kano Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, is still unclear and the company’s website is under maintenance. US private-equity firms leaving Africa have claimed they couldn’t find enough big companies to buy. In 2017, New York-based KKR disbanded its African PE team. Others like Carlyle have had their fingers burnt on the continent. However, Africa remains an important market to several others, mostly investing in early-stage businesses in the search for earnings growth. CDC Group, a major source of PE fund has already committed $25 million for investing in small and medium-sized businesses in Nigeria, as part of its continuous focus on Africa.