In terms of trade, the United Kingdom is still uncertain where it stands after it leaves the European Union, but one thing it is certain of is that it does not want to lose the African market. For that, the United Kingdom has signed a deal with countries from East and Southern Africa; the UK-Eastern and Southern Africa agreement, to ensure that there will be no disruption to the trading relationship with Eastern and Southern Africa, should the UK leave the EU. This continuity agreement will see British businesses and consumers benefiting from continued trade with Eastern and Southern Africa post EU. The EU is a single market in which no tariffs are imposed on imports and exports between member states. Withing the EU, the UK has benefited from trade deals between the EU and other world powers but outside of the EU, the UK may lose trade with its neighbours and reduce its negotiating power with the rest of the world. This, the UK cannot afford, especially for a budding market like Africa. The UK has always stated that Africa is an important market, especially for small firms but the entire African continent accounts for just 3 percent of all UK goods and services exports and imports from Africa form just 2 percent of total UK imports. The UK Prime Minister, Theresa May, in August 2018 made a three-day tour of sub-Saharan Africa to strengthen post-Brexit trade and investments. The UK’s trade presence in Africa is just a little over 2 percent, with £13 billion worth of goods exported yearly,  but with the signing of the UK-Eastern and Southern Africa agreement, the UK believes it can change the tide, increase its exports by bringing down trade barriers. According to the UK’s  Trade, Minister George Hollingbery which signed the deal, the agreement will see to the continued tariff-free imports from Eastern and Southern Africa and removes the majority of tariffs on British exports to these countries over the coming years. “Based on current trade flows, meat and fish exporters in Eastern and Southern Africa could save £30 million a year in tariff charges that could apply if the agreement wasn’t in place, while clothing exporters could save more than £10m and sugar exporters could save around £8m,” Hollingbery noted. The UK-Eastern and Southern Africa Trade Continuity Agreement was signed in London on January 31 with Mauritius, Seychelles, Comoros, Zimbabwe and Madagascar. Currently, the agreement alienates many EAC countries, However experts say that the UK is considering a special arrangement with Kenya because the agreement would be beneficial to both the UK and Kenya more than it would be with other East African countries, a move that has been greatly criticised. Critics argue that the UK singling out countries that are desperate to sign and leaving others out is a repetition of its divide-and-rule strategy. However, in September 2018, Barry Mulholland, Director if CFP programs noted that, “the kind of technology we offer would be beneficial to the Kenyan economy. More than 30 percent of roses we buy in the UK are from Kenya and exports represent 1.5 percent of its GDP.” Regardless of the strategy deployed, all the UK hopes for is to increase its exports to Africa to over £175 billion in the next three decades. The new UK-ESA agreement replicates the effects of existing trading arrangements as far as possible and will come into effect as soon as the implementation period ends in January 2021, or on 29 March 2019 if the UK leaves the EU without a deal.