The son of Mozambique’s former president Armando Guebuza has been arrested in connection with the secret $2 billion secret loans arranged by former Finance Minister, Manuel Chang and three ex-Credit Suisse Group AG bankers. Ndambi Guebuza, the eldest son of the Armando Emílio Guebuza,  a Mozambican politician who was President of Mozambique from 2005 to 2015 was detained in the country’s capital, Maputo after being arrested at his home. Mozambique sold debts on international markets that the country’s parliament and the International Monetary Funds were unaware of. When the loans were discovered to be government guaranteed, Mozambique was cut off from international credit lines in 2017. This plunged Mozambique into an economic crisis and raised the country’s debt ratio to unsustainable levels. Till date, the East African country is still trying to restructure its debts. It was discovered in 2016 that three ex-Credit Suisse Group AG bankers (Andrew Pearse, Surjan Singh, and Detelina Subeva), Manuel Chang and Jean Boustani (a contractor to the Mozambican companies) arranged secret government-guaranteed loans totalling $2 billion for the supposed financing of a tuna-fishing fleet and maritime surveillance project. The U.S., however, discovered that the $2 billion government guaranteed loans went to fraudulent companies Proindicus, Ematum (Mozambique Tuna Company), and  Mozambique Asset Management (MAM), which were fronts that the men used to launder money. The United States alleges that at least $200 million was spent on bribes and kickbacks, including $12 million for Manuel Chang, who allegedly signed off the debt. Ndambi Guebuza is alleged to have received $9.7 million in bribes. According to Voice of America, “the characteristics of detainees show two things: one is the people who are the origin of the original thought of this robbery and the other are people who have benefited from the money, so we are here in the presence of a captured state. what point these investigations and detentions will lead to a state breakdown is an issue to be answered, although there are a lot of people who want to see this resolved.”