Of the 16 national parks in Tanzania, only five are doing well enough to generate profit. These five national parks are also tasked with supporting the remaining 11 parks which are not attractive enough tourists. According to Tanzania’s Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources Permanent Secretary, Adolf Mkenda , Ngonrongo, Serengeti, Kilimanjaro, Manyara and Arusha are the only reserves operating profitably enough to pay dividends to the government as well as provide money for other reserves which are not profitable. The five reserves that generate profit are more popular than others, feature in films about wildlife. “President Magufuli has expressed his concern over the contribution of tourism in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP),” Mkenda said. However, for a country that claims it wants to increase the contribution of tourism to GDP, it is embarking on a project that may destroy one of its profit-making reserves. In December 2018, President John Magufuli signed a $3 billion agreement for the construction of a controversial hydro-electric power project in one of the country’s reserves, Selous. The project has been strongly opposed by conservationists who warn it would cause irreversible damage to the wildlife habitat and affect the lives of about 200,000 people who depend on the environment and in turn affect tourism in the country. The country’s natural attractions draw over a million tourists each year. In 2014, travel and tourism contributed almost $5 billion to Tanzania’s GDP. Presently, the country attracts 1.3 million tourists annually. In the 2016/2017 financial year, the tourism sector contributed up to 17.5 percent to Tanzania’s GDP and 25 percent to foreign currency earnings. By 2025, revenue from tourism is projected to increase by over 90 percent. The Selous Game Reserve alone generates $6 million a year. If the electric power project goes on as planned, the reserve could lose its conservation value and tourist attraction. Also, with five profitable parks, Tanzania sure knows a model that works to ensure other parks start sustaining themselves and start making profit in the near future.