The world’s largest beverage company, Coca-Cola announced that it has completed the acquisition of Nigeria’s largest juice and dairy company, Chi Limited. This deal comes three years after it acquired 40 percent stake from Tropical General Investment (TGI) Group, the holding company for Chi Limited. “Coca-Cola is continuing to evolve as a total beverage company, and Chi’s diverse range of beverages perfectly complements our existing portfolio, enabling us to accelerate expansion into new categories and grow our business in Africa,” Peter Njonjo, the president of the West Africa business unit of Coca-Cola, said on the takeover. According to a statement by the company, the acquisition will not affect the quality of the product but rather it would help the product to reach more markets across Africa by riding on the success of Coca-Cola’s system. Following the full acquisition of Chi Limited, the market value of Coca-Cola rose to $204 billion on the New York Stock Exchange. This is also Coca-Cola’s biggest acquisition since 2012. In 2012, Coke paid about $980 million to buy half of Dubai-based Aujan Industries, a juice and malt beverage maker in the Middle East. This deal also signals Coca Cola’s plan to expand across Africa by 2020 as it doubles its effort to expand beyond soda, which has recorded low sales in recent times. With shifting consumer tastes, the bad perception of regular Coke and sugary carbonated drinks and an increase in prices, Coca-Cola has struggled to maintain its historically high soda sales volume. In some jurisdictions, governments had resorted to taxing soda in order to discourage consumers from drinking it, citing obesity, diabetes, and other health problems as possible consequences. A lot of consumers now prefer alternatives such as water, tea, sports drinks, energy drinks and juices as opposed to Coca-Cola’s sugary carbonated drinks. The acquisition of Chi Limited will also position Coca-Cola better in the fiercely competitive Nigerian market where the brand has seen its dominance challenged by others such as Bigi Cola, which is gaining traction in the lower end consumer space. Manufacturers of Bigi Cola, Rite Foods, came with a good pricing strategy which has helped it grow exponentially over the past few years. Chi Limited is one of the leading Food & Beverage companies in Nigeria. It is a market leader in fruit juices, ice tea, value-added dairy products and snacks in Nigeria. Chi brands include CHIVITA 100%, CHIVITA Active, CHI Exotic, CHI Happy Hour, CHI Ice Tea, Capri-Sonne, Hollandia, Chi Super Bite and Beefie. In 2014, Coca-Cola announced that it was increasing its investment in Africa to a total of $17 billion from 2010 to 2020. This investment, which is roughly three times the amount invested over the last decade, is funding new manufacturing lines, distribution capabilities and cold drink equipment while creating additional jobs and opportunities on the continent. Coke has a 45 percent share of the $18.12 billion soda market in the Middle East and Africa but only 3.5 percent of the region’s fragmented $8.03 billion juice market. According to Euro monitor, in 2015, TGI, the holding company for Chi Limited was the second juice player behind Iran-based Alifard Co., with a 4.2 percent market share and $337 million in retail sales.