South African Airways has not made a profit since 2011. In fact, it took a R5 billion ($368.8 million) bailout from the South African government to shore up its balance sheet last year. The SAA board has also explained during a parliamentary presentation, that the airline was due to make a loss of R5.2 billion in 2019 and another loss of R1.9 billion in 2020. But there is more to worry about for the state-owned carrier, as it now has to pay JSE-listed airline Comair R1.1 billion ($78 million) as settlement for a protracted anti-competition case. The airline had lodged civil claims based on a 2006 competition appeals court ruling that found SAA guilty of engaging in anti-competitive behaviour by incentivising travel agents to divert customers to SAA flights. The civil litigation followed a Competition Tribunal ruling. Comair, which operates flights in southern Africa under a licence from British Airways, said in a statement last Friday that it expects SAA to start making payments to it from February 28, 2019 and complete it by July 28, 2022. SAA will also pay Comair’s taxed legal costs incurred to date. News of the settlement boosted Comair’s shares listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange on Friday, rising as much as 37 percent. The rally continued on Monday. Comair had last year announced it was moving much of its major maintenance requirements off SAA Technical, a subsidiary of SAA, having disappointed on several occasions. “As far as possible, Comair has moved all major maintenance requirements overseas; Comair has, with Lufthansa Technik (LHT), initiated registration of an AMO (Approved Maintenance Organisation), with the objective of moving Comair’s new aircraft deliveries directly to LHT AMO as they arrive in South Africa,” Comair CEO Erik Venter said. He explained that Comair was budgeting R100 million for contingency measures to clean up the mess created for it by SAA, making it one of the South African aviation industry’s worst airlines for on-time departure. Meanwhile, SAA is happy to see the 14-year court battle with Comair over, saying it paves the way for the airline to reach financial sustainability. “The finalisation of this case marks the conclusion of one of the disappointing legacy matters that dragged on for far too long and was overdue. The current airline leadership at board and executive management level is committed to closing all legacy issues and to start on a clean slate,” SAA said on Saturday. The company’s spokesman Tlali Tlali also told Reuters that there will be a restructuring of SAA that will create three distinct business units focusing on domestic flights, pan-African travel and other international routes.