This is not the first time the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would postpone elections in Nigeria. In 2011, INEC postponed parliamentary polls twice after voting materials failed to arrive polling units on time. In 2015, the electoral body also postponed the presidential election six days before the d-day, citing insecurity. But with this year’s presidential election earlier scheduled to hold today, February 16, one of the most anticipated in Nigeria’s history, the postponement hours before the vote, hit a nerve, with many Nigerians already struggling to remain patriotic, now losing any fragment of hope of a better Nigeria, they previously held on to. Ahead of the scheduled polls, Nigerians were mainly divided along party and ideological lines. Many Nigerians, without political affiliations, who wanted the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari to get re-elected cite his perceived integrity and fight against corruption. Others who preferred the main challenger and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, cite President Buhari’s abysmal performance on the economic front as the major reason he had to go. There are others who wanted an alternative to Buhari and Atiku, both belonging to the generation of leaders many Nigerians believe have failed the country. They were all ready to vote for their preferred candidates, traveling across seas and deserts to get to their polling units only to wake up to news of postponement of the election. “I’m very disappointed,” said Mohammed, an Abuja-based Taxi driver, who traveled to Kano to vote. He had left the Nigerian capital on Thursday to vote at his home town in Kano, a northern Nigerian state, where his wives and kids reside. “I can’t wait here till next week,” he told our reporter from his Kano home by phone, explaining how much he could lose by waiting till next Saturday, the new day for the presidential poll. “But I may go back if business no too dey,” he added in broken English. Mohammed and his circle of educated friends had made a pact to participate in the electoral process and ensure their preferred candidates win. “We don’t argue about politics,” he said, “but we discuss the mistake of our leaders and what can be done to improve things.” He declined when our reporter asked who he planned to vote for, but he expressed his disappointment that a lot of people may not get to vote. “Abuja is not too far from Kano. That’s why I can think of coming back here to vote. My friend just got back from Osun yesterday and he has important business to do on Wednesday. He can’t come back. Many people won’t come back,” Mohammed said as he reminded our reporter not to publish his last name. Mohammed is not the only Nigeria, likely to be disenfranchised by the postponement of the presidential poll, a Nigerian Timothy Uwaila, who travelled back home from Tanzania has only four days to stay, during which he had hoped to vote his preferred candidate for president. When urged to wait for the rescheduled poll by Twitter users, he said he couldn’t. “I’m a Team Lead in govt(government) projects. I was given 4days by our client against the tenents of the MOU,” he explained. Uwaila’s disappointment is written all over his tweet. But like Uwaila, Nigeria’s President Buhari, who is seeking re-election, is also disappointed. The 76-year-old had traveled to his Katsina home to vote only to return to Abuja on Saturday after INEC announced it had postponed the presidential election. “INEC themselves have given assurances, day after day and almost hour after hour that they are in complete readiness for the elections. We and all our citizens believed them,” the president wrote on Twitter. However, just as he accused then president Goodluck Jonathan’s government when INEC postponed the 2015 polls, Buhari’s government has also faced criticism for INEC’s action. The main challenger for his seat, Atiku wondered why the electoral body had to postpone the poll when “the Buhari administration … had more than enough time and money to prepare”. “Their plan is to provoke the public, hoping for a negative reaction, and then use that as an excuse for further anti-democratic acts,” he noted. Atiku called on Nigerians to be patient. “We have tolerated the maladministration of this government for four years. We can extend our tolerance a few more days and give them our verdict via our votes.” But Nigerians are tired and many would give anything to leave the country, with Canada a popular destination. The North American country, which received more than 2,000 Nigerian asylum seekers in the first quarter of 2018, trended on Twitter in Nigeria as citizens discuss the delayed vote, with many reawakening their desire to emigrate. Many Nigerians believe the country has failed them and the postponement of a highly anticipated presidential poll is a reminder that nothing has changed. With basic amenities still a luxury to many despite Nigeria’s vast oil wealth, there are growing frustrations in the country, leaving many to only see a better future outside the country, regardless of their current social class in Nigeria. Today’s vote was for many another opportunity to “try again”. “I donated to Buhari’s campaign. I voted him. But he failed me. I wanted to try again, vote someone who holds some promise, but now I’m just tired,” said Tony, who works with an oil servicing company in a southern Nigerian state. “I don’t want my kids to grow up in this kind of society. I earn well, but I can’t afford the kind of life I desire for my kids. Why do I have to pay through my nose to send them to good schools and have constant power?” “I’m tired. I’m worried. I just feel like moving on.” Asked where he would go if he decides to relocate. “Canada, without a shadow of doubt,” he replied.