The United Kingdom Export Finance (UKEF) will support UK firms in Ghana with £130 million ($173.23 million) for projects that have a direct impact on Ghana’s infrastructure and economic development. This was made known on Wednesday, February 27, 2019 by the International Trade Secretary, Dr Liam Fox MP during the meeting of the UK Ghana Business Council which took place in Accra Ghana. “Ghana is an increasingly dynamic economy and I am delighted that UKEF is supporting the development of the vital infrastructure that will underpin this growth. These projects will have a dramatic impact on trade, healthcare and transport in the country and demonstrate how British expertise across a number of sectors is improving vital infrastructure all over the world,” said Fox. According to a press statement on the UK government’s website, the support will be focused on three projects which include developing a market, building a new hospital and expanding an airport. £70.3 million of the support will go towards a contract for Contracta Construction UK to develop and modernise Kumasi Central Market. UKEF, the world’s oldest export credit agency, will provide a direct loan and bank guarantee to Ghana’s Ministry of Finance to fund the contract, which will include improvements to electrical networks, water supplies, generators, fire detection systems and public transport. “UKEF’s flexible financial support played a key part in securing the Kumasi Central Market contract. Kumasi is a vital trading hub for the Ashanti region and West Africa’s largest market, and this modernisation will have huge benefits for vendors and customers, as well as for our continued international growth and UK supply chain,” Fabio Camara, Director, Contracta Construction UK Ltd said. A guarantee for a £43.8 million loan will also be provided by UKEF to the Ministry of Finance to support the contract with QG Construction UK for the modernisation of Tamale Airport in the northern region of Ghana. The project will include the construction of a modern new international terminal building, access roads and ancillary facilities exclusive for civil aviation in the existing airport space. Bekwai hospital will be provided with a guarantee for a £17.6 million loan from UKEF to support a contract between Ellipse UK and the Eurofinsa group. The companies will manage every aspect of the hospital’s completion including the supply and installation of medical equipment. The hospital is expected to have 120 beds, an emergency department, a maternity ward and an operating theatre. The UK Export Finance is the UK’s export credit agency and a government department, working alongside the Department for International Trade as an integral part of its strategy and operations. Their mission is to ensure that no viable UK export fails for lack of finance or insurance from the private market. They provide finance and insurance to help exporters win, fulfill and ensure they get paid for export contracts. They have supported exports in sectors such as aerospace, healthcare, infrastructure, telecommunications and transport. Last year, Ghana became the first West African country to have a representative of UKEF. UK government had earlier increased the export finance cover available to the Ghanaian market from £125 million to £500 million.