In a capitalist world, it is very difficult to accept that a state-owned enterprise (SOE) can do well. More so, there are several examples of SOEs that have failed or are currently in dire straits. So, when a Nigerian state launches an airline in a market where margins are low and operating environment tough, it is fair to question the rationale behind investing millions of dollars in a venture doomed to fail. But the oil-rich state in Nigeria’s south-south, which is on an industrialisation drive is keen to invest in aviation development, and sees the launch of its own airline as key to achieving set goals. “Aviation development cannot be underemphasized if my vision for an industrialized State must be actualized,” Akwa Ibom State governor Udom Emmanuel noted. “We’ve recorded remarkable achievements in the aviation sector, some of which include construction of a second airport runway, upgrade of airport main runway to category 2 (CAT 2 Certification), construction of a new Commercial Building Terminal and installation of full runway lighting,” he added. But to what end? This is the question of critics of the highly celebrated Ibom Air, the state’s new airline which took delivery of new aircraft on Wednesday. Two erstwhile privately-owned airlines are currently under the management of the country’s bad bank, the Assets Management Company of Nigeria (AMCON), which bought over their debts and kept them afloat. Globally, the aviation industry is a tough one to play in and only a few airlines are profitable. It gets worse, when you consider Africa and then, Nigeria, where total passenger traffic in the first half of 2018 for both local and international routes was 7,503,408. While the aviation industry might be a tough one to play in, as several critics of Ibom Air pointed out, others claim the biggest risk for the new airline is state ownership. But state ownership is not a risk in itself, rather poor institutions that enable political interference is the risk factor responsible for the failure of many State-owned enterprises (SOEs). “SOEs typically suffer from political interference and poor governance,” said Professor Sergio G. Lazzarini of the Insper Institute of Education and Research in São Paulo, Brazil. “For instance, managers who are appointed by politicians and who are poorly monitored,” he added. “In emerging markets, these problems are not curtailed because institutions do not create enough checks and balances to avoid dysfunctional interference,” Lazzarini, who co-authored a paper Leviathan in Business: Varieties of State Capitalism and Their Implications for Economic Performance, told TheNerve Africa. “Yet, as countries develop their institutions, SOEs can increase their performance. For instance, some countries have specific laws that forbid the appointment of politicians to the ranks of SOEs; create regulatory agencies that create impediments for governments to use SOEs to intervene in markets; promote large investigation operations to uncover corruption and wrongdoing; establish stringent transparency rules. “In other words, SOEs can function well when institutions are more developed, but they will fail miserably when countries cannot curtail political meddling and politicians (colluding with managers) use SOEs for their own benefit,” Lazzarini told TheNerve Africa. Ethiopian Airlines, Africa’s only profitable state-owned airline has remained profitable for decades and was even at a time the most profitable airline in the world. This is because the running of the airline has been devoid of political interference. In fact, according to history, the first time a discernible interference happened, a top army official involved was executed publicly as a deterrence to others who might dream of eroding the independence of the airline. The airline is a shining light in an age where key SOEs such as South Africa’s public electricity utility Eskom are crumbling under the weight of massive debts accumulated through corrupt leadership. The utility is currently under investigation by a Commission of Inquiry, as the country tries to save the important company from collapse. As Professor Lazzarini rightly stated, SOEs can function well when institutions are more developed, but they will fail miserably when countries cannot curtail political meddling. The question is ‘are institutions in Nigeria developed enough to support the growth of SOEs?’ Right there is the challenge some Nigerians have with SOEs and why they are quick to predict doom whenever a new SOE is formed. Nigeria’s state-owned oil company the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is often a subject of corruption allegations, with a legacy of poor performance in some of its subsidiaries. Selling NNPC might sound simplistic, but for the good of Nigeria and the state oil company, govt divesting its ownership is the right thing to do. Look at this chart. The CHQ, Refineries and PPMC (NPSC) are bleeding the entire group. pic.twitter.com/uE3WKLRUI3 Nigeria’s telecommunications industry also struggled until privatisation brought in different players that have seen the industry grow while delivering value to stakeholders. Considering how badly run most SOEs in Africa are, apprehension about SOEs cannot be described as totally unnecessary. Yet, when the presidential candidate representing the main opposition party in Nigeria said he would privatise the country’s oil company if he wins the poll scheduled for Saturday, many were against his position. Not that there were calls for him to expatiate on his plans but outright rejection of privatisation of a badly run SOE. For most Nigerians who reacted to Atiku Abubakar’s privatisation speech, it was about their support for a preferred candidate. It was politics. And there again is the fear of many who criticize the decision of Nigeria’s Akwa Ibom State to launch its own airline. For all they know, it could be the governor’s way of leaving a legacy like most Nigerian leaders like to do, regardless of the sustainability of the projects they embark on. With campaigns for the general elections in Nigeria in top gear, TheNerve Africa could not get through to officials of the Akwa Ibom State government but a government source noted that the plan is to “run Ibom Air in the best possible way, without interfering in a way that will affect the airline’s growth”. “Ibom Air will boost the state’s economy and tourism,” the source said.