In a bid to address its currency crisis, Zimbabwe has merged its substitute currency with the electronic funds’ transfer, to create a new currency,  Real Time Gross Transfer dollars, (RTGS dollars) that will float freely against the dollars and other major currencies. Early this year, Zimbabwe’s finance minister, Mthuli Ncube, confirmed that the country would introduce a new currency that would roll out in the next 12 months. It was barely up to two months when the announcement was made that Zimbabwe decided to merge the Real Time Gross Settlement and bond notes. Although it is still unclear if the country would introduce another currency much later in the year, but the merger might not go down well with many who think both currencies are a national joke. Professor of Applied Economics at John Hopkins University Steve Hanke believes Zimbabwe should go back to the dollarization of its economy “If Zim fails to remove the Real Time Gross Settlement and bond notes from the system, the economy will collapse within one year or less,” he notes. Inflation is hitting hard on the Zimbabwean economy and the price of many goods are increasing. Hyperinflation in Zimbabwe rose as high as 500 billion percent in 2008, forcing the country to abandon its currency and adopt the US dollar as its principal means of exchange. In 2015, 250 trillion Zimbabwean dollars exchanged for only $1 and there was an acute shortage of cash. By 2016, the country introduced bond notes as a way of easing acute shortages of cash, but this did not solve the shortages, rather, it led to a thriving black market. Zimbabweans began transacting with US dollars and supplementing the currency with bond notes. Inflation averaged 1.58 percent from 2009 until 2018, reaching an all-time high of 31.01 percent in November 2018. Presently, inflation in the Southern African country is at 40 percent. The country has been rolling out various policies to tackle the challenges caused by the lack of a consistent currency,  including a fuel price hike that has affected the availability and production of bread in the country. As part of the government’s attempt to revive the economy, the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe (RBZ) Governor, John Mangudya said the new RTGS dollars would bring sanity in the foreign currency market, promote exports, boost diaspora remittances and investments, eliminate multi-tier pricing, as well as preserve the value of local forms of money. Mangudya said the bank had arranged sufficient lines of credit to maintain adequate foreign currency to underpin the foreign exchange market. He said foreign currency from the interbank market shall be utilised for current bona fide foreign payment invoices, except education.