The price of bread in Zimbabwe has increased for the fourth time in the space of 12 months. The current 70 percent increase is the highest the country has witnessed since the introduction of multiple currencies in 2009. This is coming weeks after the government raised the price of petrol, sparking violent protests in the country. As at January, a loaf of bread in the southern African country cost R18 ($1.40) but with the increase, Zimbabweans would pay between R28 ($2.10) and R31 ($2.35) for a loaf. In a statement to The Herald, a top player in the baking sector stated that bakers do not import some raw materials directly, however with the shifting exchange rates, the local suppliers increase prices. The Grain Association of Zimbabwe (GMAZ) also noted that the increase in bread prices has nothing to do with flour prices, as they remained unchanged. GMAZ spokesperson, Gerikai Chaunza told New Zimbabwe newspaper that the price hikes were not related to flour prices. Meanwhile, the President of the National Bakers Association, Ngoni Mazango argues that the increase is a result of the foreign currency challenges. According to him, the cost prices have cost the industry to be viable for a long time “Trying to bridge the gap is a big tall order. Some bakers are closing shop. The cost involved for repairs and maintenance as well as running cost are making it difficult for most bakers to remain afloat. Prior to the price hike, bakers that have been complaining that most of their inputs requiring foreign currency were now very expensive due to the fluctuating exchange rates, proposed that a loaf of bread be sold for $2.20. The government, on the other hand, vetoed the proposal, demanding to know what could be done to keep the price at levels affordable by the ordinary citizen. Inflation is hitting hard on the Zimbabwean economy and the price of many goods are increasing. Inflation averaged 1.58 percent from 2009 until 2018, reaching an all-time high of 31.01 percent in November 2018. Presently, inflation in the Southern African country is at 40 percent, the highest rate since hyperinflation forced Zimbabwe to abandon its own currency ten years ago and adopt United Stated dollars, electronic cash as well as bond notes. Last year, the government introduced a tax on all electronic devices, saying that the money realised would be used to construct roads and improve both the health and education sectors. President Emmerson Mnangagwa had said it was a painful but necessary part of the government’s attempt to revive the economy. However, the process of reviving the economy is digging deep into the already hollow pockets of Zimbabweans. A minimum of $13 million is needed monthly in Zimbabwe to import the wheat that would produce bread flour and self-raising flour. Zimbabwe currently consumes 1.8 million loaves of bread daily.