The United States embassy in Accra will start limiting the visa it awards to certain Ghanaian applicants from February 4, 2019, following their government’s refusal to accept Ghanaian nationals deported from the U.S. back into the country. According to the United States Department of Homeland Security Secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen “Ghana has failed to live up to its obligations under international law to accept the return of its nationals ordered removed from the United States.”  She noted that, “The United States routinely cooperates with foreign governments in documenting and accepting US citizens when asked, as appropriate, as do the majority of countries in the world, but Ghana has failed to do so in this case.” In September 2018, Ghana’s ambassador to the U.S., Baffour Adjei-Bawuah, was quoted by local media as saying that an agreement had been reached to return Ghanaian deportees after the United States accused 7,000 people of immigration offences, including abusing the terms of their visas. For that, he said that the U.S. was deporting them to their countries. Of the 7,000 people, 370 people were slated for deportation to Ghana in 2017, another 243 Ghanaian nationals were due to be repatriated last in 2018, according to a report released by the US Immigration and Customs Enforcement. However, Ghana is questioning the deportees’ nationality and treatment and for that, the West African country has refused to accept them. Last year, Ghana began vetting the deportees to confirm their nationalities and in the process raised concerns about the inhumane treatment meted out to the deportees by U.S. officials. Ghana’s Citi Newsroom reported that some deportees were handcuffed and forced aboard a plane to Ghana. The  U.S. denied the reports Presently, the visa restriction applies to domestic staff of diplomats posted to America but it is expected to affect more people in other categories if the issue between the two countries is not resolved, U.S. officials warned. A lack of adjudication of a visa application does not mean a visa denial, it just means it would remain pending until the restrictions are lifted, the embassy said.