When it comes to money, the human mind has the ability to think far and wide. The lack of sufficient funds, power, and the need to acquire one has led people to unethical lines of businesses; one is the business of albino body parts. The illegal trade of albino body parts stemmed from a superstitious belief that these bones and body parts would bring wealth and good luck. Imagine a person, either out of desperation or sheer greed feel that the best way to make money is to make a business out of human body parts. People who their only crime is having a genetic disorder that cause the skin, hair, or eyes to have little or no colour. This trade is common in many parts of Africa – Tanzania, Malawi, and Burundi among others, but in recent weeks it has manifested more frequently in Malawi following the nearness to the presidential polls. Many albinos on the African continent do not feel safe and those in Tanzania took a step further to ensure their safety by calling on the government to pave a way for people with albinism to seek asylum in foreign countries. Despite the attack on the over 15,000 people living with albinism in Malawi, the country’s Homeland Security minister Nicholas Dausi on Thursday, February 20, 2019, said the resurgent attacks had not yet reached crisis levels. Regrettably, the evil business fetches people involved huge sums of money. Body parts of an albino can cost from $2,000 for a limb to $75,000 for a full set of body parts. Even in death, the business pays. The corpse of albinos still fetch a great deal of money that their graves have to be sealed with concrete to stop grave robbers who have made a business out of dissecting human beings. Another that has been gravely criticized is the one proposed by the Ugandan government. The government hopes to boost its tourism sector by displaying curvy women, after all, there are endowed women in the country. In 2017, the Uganda Tourism Board (UTB) estimated that 1.3 million foreigners visited Uganda, contributing $1.4 billion in revenue to the economy. To attract more tourists to the country, the government’s best thought is to lure them with attractive, naturally endowed nice-looking Ugandan women with a lot of curves. Uganda’s state minister for tourism, Godfrey Kiwanda, launched “Miss Curvy Uganda” as part of the Tulambule tourism initiative, which is designed to showcase attractions such as wildlife to national parks. “We have naturally endowed nice-looking women that are amazing to look at. Why don’t we use these people as a strategy to promote our tourism industry?” Kiwanda was quoted as saying in The East African newspaper. Another booming trade is the illegal sale of children. Adopting a child is legal but the process takes between 16 to 18 months and it is usually expensive. To avoid the process and mostly because people like shortcuts, people patronise illegal baby traders, making the business lucrative. Baby selling rackets are thriving in Nigeria where a web of traffickers, doctors, nurses and midwives are turning the youngest, most vulnerable human lives into commodities, putting them up for sale to the highest bidder. In the West African nation where legal adoption can take years, people are handing over thousands of dollars to baby sellers. As of 2017, a newborn baby was given up for N20,000 ($55.31), N300 ($0.83) short of a 50kg bag of rice in the southern part of the country and bought for as much as $5,000. The same year, in the Eastern part of the country of Imo State, 257 illegal baby factories were uncovered. And this is one state alone. There are more bizarre trades out there and it is just unfortunate that sometimes reality is stranger than fiction. The quest for money has eliminated people’s sense of self, reasoning and morals.