Tanzania seems confused if the country wants to import sugar or ban importation to boost local production. In less than four months,  the East African country thrice banned imports and backtracked on its decision. But the bitter truth is that until its production can satisfy local demand, Tanzania needs to keep importing sugar. Barely a week after placing a ban on sugar imports and freezing permits, Tanzania once again backtracked on its decision. As at last week, Tanzania’s minister of Agriculture, Japhet Hasunga, said that the government was now contented with plans by manufacturers to produce more sugar and that the country has enough stock until May, and therefore, permits would be issued to non-sugar producing companies from June to bridge the gap. “We are now satisfied with the companies’ strategic plans to increase sugar production and that is why we have decided to allow them to supply and import sugar for domestic consumption,” Hasunga said. In April 2018, President John Magufuli put a stop to the importation of sugar, saying he believes that the sugar plants in the country has what it takes to sustain the demand of the market by itself. This decision came after Tanzania was plagued by a deepening sugar crisis in January 2018, which saw the country’s Trade and Environment Committee issue a directive to the government to fast-track clearance of stalled industrial sugar at the Dar es Salaam Port, in order to avert the looming crisis of shutting down factories. By May 2018, Tanzania retracted its sugar importation ban in a bid to end the sugar scarcity ahead of the Ramadan celebration. A similar issue had occurred in 2016 when the country placed a ban on the importation of sugar and retracted its decision. Tanzania’s annual sugar production stands at about 320,000 metric tonnes against the domestic consumption of about 420,000 metric tonnes, leaving a deficit of about 100,000 tonnes a year to be made up by imports. Tanzania produces an average of 300,000 tonnes of sugar per year with a demand of 590,000 tonnes per year. The country has to make a standing decision if it wants to ease shortage of sugar or boost local production, as it seems it is currently finding hard to make the two can’t work hand in hand.