The African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) is to implement a Tunisia-Africa Trade and Investment Promotion Programme (TATIPP) with an initial commitment of $500 million to promote trade between Tunisia and the rest of Africa. Afreximbank also approved facilities worth $300 million for six Tunisian banks under its Afreximbank Trade Facilitation Programme (AFTRAF). Prof. Benedict Oramah, President of the Bank made this known in Tunis on Monday, during a meeting with President Beji Caid Essebsi of Tunisia. According to him, TATIPP, whose structure would be similar to the programmes being implemented with Egypt, South Africa and Nigeria, would provide special risk cover for Tunisia’s trade with the rest of Africa. Oramah is in Tunis to participate in the two-day Financing Investment and Trade in Africa conference being hosted by the Tunisia-Africa Business Council from 5 to 6 February. The programme aims to provide financing to Tunisian companies engaged in trade with other African countries and support others to retool with the view to improving their competitiveness in Africa and globally. According to him, if the initial $500 million commitment is fully utilized, Afreximbank will be prepared to increase the amount available, as it continues to support Tunisian businesses. One of the local beneficiaries of Afreximbank’s support is the Loukil Group, which got Euro 50 million trade facility in 2017. Tunisia’s President Beji Caid Essebsi commended Afreximbank for introducing TATIPP. He expressed the country’s full support for the programme, pledging policy support to facilitate a smooth implementation and potentially deepen trade and economic cooperation between Tunisia and other African countries. AFTRAF is structured to enhance confidence of counterparties in the settlement of international trade transactions, support intra-African trade and facilitate purchase of equipment for production of export goods. It was developed in response to the cutbacks in trade finance available to Africa due to stringent compliance and regulatory requirements imposed on international banks.