The second largest telecommunication operator in Kenya, Airtel announced that it has signed an agreement with Kenya’s third largest telecommunications network, Telkom Kenya, to merge for an undisclosed amount. The new entity, which will be known as Airtel-Telkom is expected to challenge market leader Safaricom and steal part of its 65.4 percent market share. “The Enterprise and Carrier Services businesses should benefit from a larger fibre footprint and an increased number of enterprise customers – including both large corporations and SMEs who would have access to a diverse portfolio of world-class solutions,” Airtel said in a statement. However, the deal is subject to approval by relevant authorities. According to latest statistics, as at October 2018, Kenya had about  45.4 million mobile customers out of which Safaricom has 29.7 million customers representing  65.4 percent market share. Airtel has about  9.7 million customers,. Telkom 3.8 million and Finserve 1.9 million customers,  representing 21.4 percent, 8.9 percent and 4.3 percent market share, respectively. Airtel has been growing steadily over the years. In June 2017, the telco’s subscribers rose 11.9 percent from 8.7 million to 9.7 million to secure a market share of 21.4 percent, while Safaricom’s market share fell to 65.4 percent from 72.6 percent. The deal will see a stronger, more diversified entity put up a stronger challenge against Safaricom, for telecomms subscribers in Kenya. Safaricom has always expected competitors to challenge its dominance in Kenya. Airtel has tried to start off a price war, but Safaricom did not participate, maintaining its prices at a time Airtel slashed prices. Airtel and Telkom have also asked the Communications Authority of Kenya (CA) to compel the telco to share its transmission sites with them. The company has been under pressure to share its mobile money agency network to others in order to bolster fair competition. Hence, the CA had commissioned a report on competition, which sought to control Safaricom’s ability to set its retail prices, curb its marketing expenditure and force it to share its extensive infrastructure with the other operators. Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore had said a merger would make the report obsolete. “It will be obsolete. The conditions which you studied a few years ago are no longer relevant,” he told Reuters in January. He also welcomed news of the planned merger at the time. “It is a good thing because what you create is an entity which has got at least 30 percent market share. There is a critical mass that any player needs to get to, to be operating sensibly,” he said. While the merger will make competition in voice and data stiffer, Safaricom has an edge with M-Pesa, the mobile money service through which it now offers overdraft services.