The United Nations (UN) wants Britain to end its occupation of Chagos Islands. The UN’s highest court ruled on Monday that UK must return the island to Mauritius “as rapidly as possible”. The island nation claims it was forced to give up the islands, now a British overseas territory, in 1965 in exchange for its 1968 independence. The International Court of Justice, Monday, said the islands’ separation from Mauritius was illegal. The Judges stated that Britain is under an obligation to bring to an end its administration of the Chagos Archipelago as rapidly as possible. Mauritians were forced to give up the islands to Britain in 1965 in exchange for the independence it gained in 1968. When Mauritius was still in the process of negotiating its independence from the United Kingdom (UK), the British government evicted the entire population and then invited the United States of America to build a military base on one of the islands Diego Garcia, a deal Mauritius has repeatedly condemned. In return, the US offered the UK a sizable discount on the Polaris nuclear submarine system, the country’s first underwater nuclear weapons network, as collateral. Since then, the base has provided the US Military with a vital central hub to command the Indian Ocean. The base has the capacity to house more than 2,000 troops and 30 warships at a time. It also has two bomber runways, a satellite spy station and facilities enabling the use of nuclear-armed submarines. The island’s isolated location on the sovereign territory of a close ally reduces its vulnerability to terrorist attacks and violence from Mauritius and surrounding local population as is the case with many overseas bases. Little wonder they and their UK collaborators held on to the island. Majority of the bombing raids of Afghanistan and Iraq during the war in the Middle East came from Diego Garcia. In 2015, Diego Garcia was revealed to have been used by intelligence agencies to temporarily house and interrogate terror suspects in the wake of 9/11, and it was also rumoured to be a CIA black site. Meanwhile, US Ministers claimed the island was used just twice as a refueling stop for extraordinary rendition flights and insists that no detainees set foot on the Mauritius Island. However, US secretary of state Colin Powell’s chief of staff between 2002 and 2005 says otherwise as he notes that the terror suspects are moved from the base to secret prisons for torture. In the late 1990s, islanders from the Chagos Archipelago, including Diego Garcia, sued for the right to return home. A year later in 2000, a British court ruled that the 1971 ordinance banning them from the islands was unlawful but U.S. and British officials rejected the ruling and opposed the plan for resettlement, however,  the court upheld its decision in 2006. By 2007 the British government lost its case before the Court of Appeal but announced its intention to challenge that decision in the House of Lords. The following year a majority of the panel of five Law Lords ruled against the Islanders. After a series of back and forth judgement, in 2017, the United Nations General Assembly requested a resolution. This was vehemently opposed by the US and Britain, the resolution received the vote of 94 countries while 15 voted against it and 65 abstained. As expected, Britain opposed the referral to the court saying it was a bilateral matter with Mauritius and indicated it would reject it. Meanwhile, Mauritius couldn’t contain their joy, after the ICJ announcement. Pravind Jugnauth, the prime minister of Mauritius,  who praised the historic moment, states that “Our territorial integrity will now be made complete, and when that occurs, the Chagossians and their descendants will finally be able to return home”. The International Court of Justice (ICJ), a court open only to States, certain organs and institutions of the United Nations system for advisory proceedings for contentious proceedings is the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. The Court has a twofold role: settling, in accordance with international law, legal disputes submitted to it by States; giving advisory  on legal questions referred to it by duly authorized United Nations organs and agencies of the system. However, the UK Foreign Office said the court’s position is “an advisory opinion, not a judgment”. The UK has previously said it will hand the islands back to Mauritius when they are no longer required for defence purposes. “The defence facilities on the British Indian Ocean Territory help to protect people here in Britain and around the world from terrorist threats, organised crime and piracy.” Established by the United Nations Charter in June 1945, ICJ began its activities a year later in April 1946. The seat of the Court is at the Peace Palace in The Hague (Netherlands). Of the six principal organs of the United Nations, it is the only one not located in New York. Known as the World Court, the ICJ is the only court of a universal character with general jurisdiction. The Court is composed of 15 judges elected for a nine-year term by the General Assembly and the Security Council of the United Nations. Independent of the United Nations Secretariat, ICJ is assisted by a Registry, its own international secretariat, whose activities are both judicial and diplomatic, as well as administrative.