Almost
every election in Africa comes with heightened tension because of the possibilities
of post-election violence that most of the time leads to the destruction of lives
and properties. Elections in most African countries have
historically been blighted by fraud, intimidation, and politically motivated
violence. As a result, many organizations and governments put a lot of
resources into trying to stop or minimize the challenges that come with
elections in Africa. It
is a tradition to have a barrage of awareness and advocacy campaigns appealing
for a violence-free election and for citizens not to sell their votes. As
usual, during the election season, both local and international organizations are
doing a tremendous job of pushing these campaigns with the hope that the 2019 Nigerian
general elections will be free and fair with little or no violence. These
campaigns are, however, targeted mainly at the masses because it is perceived
that they are the key perpetrators of election violence and are also the ones
that sell their votes. While this perception based on past elections is true,
the fact is that the increasing incidence of election violence is not being
addressed. Furthermore, the root causes of buying and selling of votes is completely
overlooked. There
is a close relationship between poverty, election violence, and vote buying/
selling. For the politicians, this is gold. Poverty plays a crucial role in
vote selling and post-election violence in Nigeria and the politicians are
aware of this fact. They know that the poor standard of living has driven majority
of the people into extreme poverty to the extent that the people are willing to
sell their future for a paltry amount. According
to the World
Data Lab, an estimated 87
million people in Nigeria now live below the extreme poverty line of $1.90 a
day.  This number makes up about 44 percent of the country’s population.
Based on that data, nearly six Nigerians fall
below the extreme poverty line every minute. Vote
buying and selling originate from the fact that there is a failed system that
makes it possible for the politicians and their agents to buy, and for the
people to sell and make some quick money. Unfortunately, there doesn’t seem to
be any campaigns that appeal to the politicians not to make such offers for
vote buying. In
Nigeria, vote buying and selling also involves obtaining people’s permanent
voters’ cards (PVC). In this case, the voting card becomes the property of
whoever paid for it and is used exclusively to vote for that aspirant. You
might wonder how that is possible since only the rightful owner is able to use
the PVC, as it carries the biometric data of the owner. During
the 2015 elections, there were lots of irregularities that were overlooked by
both local and international organizations. The most visible of them was the
failure of voting tools to function in full capacity. While most of the card
readers identified PVCs as original cards, registered in specific voting units,
most frequently the biometric part of the card readers failed to make a match
between the card and the thumbprint of the card owner. As a result, most of the
election officers abandoned the biometric verification process because the
thumbprint recognition part of the biometric equipment simply didn’t work. The
malfunction of the biometric verification machine opened the floodgates to multiple
voting by any individual in possession of PVCs. One
is therefore left to wonder if some aspirants and political parties had
foreknowledge about the deficiency of the biometric verification part of the
card readers and as a result stocked up on PVCs. Agents of aspirants and
political parties bought PVCs before and during elections for as low as N5, 000
(approximately $34 then). In some cases, stealing and selling PVCs became a
brisk business, while others willingly and intentionally sold theirs and saw it
as “the only dividend of democracy they will ever enjoy”. Some thought the
money was better than standing under the hot scorching sun for an election that
has already been decided by the powers that be. Recently,
the governorship election in Ekiti, a south western Nigerian state, was
characterized by a pervasive buying and selling of votes. There were reports of
political party agents and affiliates openly buying votes on Election Day in
voting units. Agents bought, people sold, and everything went back to being
normal. In
addressing part of the challenges that give room for vote buying and selling, the
Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has to rectify the malfunction
witnessed with the biometric verification of voters in 2015. Local and
international organizations and groups must insist that only voters whose
biometrics has been verified will be eligible to vote. Vote
buying and selling as well as instigating and financing election violence are
criminal acts that obstruct and undermine the Nigerian democracy. This criminal
act is not new to Nigerian elections and politicians but the fact that this
criminal act is now a normal phenomenon means the fragile democracy in Nigeria
will continue to be obstructed and undermined. As
long as perpetrators of these heinous acts are not held accountable and brought
to justice, they will brazenly continue to take advantage of the people and
drive the democratic process into a quagmire. Both international and especially
local groups and organizations are saddled with the responsibility to stand
against any form of vote buying and election violence and must demand justice
for anyone caught in the act. Election
campaigns should target the masses but also the politicians, political parties
and agents. If politicians don’t instigate and finance election violence there
will be none. If they don’t offer to buy votes and provide the funds to buy
votes there will be no selling of votes. To minimize the challenge of vote
buying and selling INEC needs to fix the biometric part of the card readers and
ensure that only individuals who have successfully gone through the card and
biometric verification are eligible to vote. So, while it is important to
enlighten and engage the masses, it is also more important to engage politicians
and their platforms.