Nigeria’s Co-creation Hub (CcHub), Thursday, launched the CcHub Design Lab in Kigali, Rwanda. The state-of-the-art lab, CcHub’s first in East Africa was opened on the first day of the annual Africa Tech Summit Kigali. “CcHUB’s expansion into Kigali, marked with the launch of the Design Lab today, is an exciting landmark for Rwanda’s burgeoning tech community. Rwanda is keen on collaborating with world-class partners to establish ourselves as a leading destination that nurtures innovation-driven enterprises,” the Minister of ICT and Innovation, Rwanda, Paula Ingabire said during the official launch. The firm also plans to spend $11 million on providing design technology solutions to systemic problems in public health, education and governance. “It is important to understand that we don’t have the luxury to build solutions just for the sake of solutions. We have to build for end users who desperately need solutions for the existing problems in society. Applying design thinking will help African countries not waste time during the process of building solutions,” said CcHUB’s Founder and CEO, Bosun Tijani. The hub, which is expanding its physical presence out of Nigeria for the first time in its eight-year history, also plans to use technology to widen STEM education, improve interests and learning outcomes and introduce smart applications in schools. According to Rwanda’s leading daily, The New Times, the launch of the CcHUB Design Lab coincided with the announcement of the partnership with Rwanda Biomedical Centre as its first local company to a partner, joining the likes of Go-Ga Lab, Nimcure and Safe Online. “We see technology as an integral gateway and means of developing society – an ethos and mission shared by CcHUB. As we strive to become a knowledge-based economy, we will continue to build long-lasting, strategic partnerships that celebrate excellence, forge ahead with progress and that are, essentially, a force for good that will impact thousands of people across the continent,” said Paula Ingabire. This lab provides a space for product designers, engineers, scientists and stakeholders to explore the application of emerging technologies to solve Africa’s public health, education, governance and private sector challenges. Why CcHub decided to open the lab in Rwanda CcHUB boasts of a pre-incubation portfolio of over 60 companies, including digital blood bank, Lifebank, recycling venture, WeCyclers and a web platform that simplifies the Nigerian budget and public data, Budgit. It is worthy to note that this expansion marks the first expansion of the firm outside of its home country of Nigeria. “Whilst our work from the lab will focus on the entire continent, we chose Rwanda as the country to operate from because of the ease of doing business in the country. Additionally, by collaborating with the Government of Rwanda, whose vision aligns with ours, we hope to find solutions that will enable socio-economic development, productivity and development across Africa” said Bosun Tijani.