The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has obtained orders to freeze 11 accounts associated with Kenyan businessman Humphrey Kariuki over alleged tax evasion amounting to Sh3 billion ($30 million) from his three companies, Africa Spirits Limited, WOW Beverages and Wines of World Limited. The documents submitted to the court noted that the companies cannot account for the way they have been manufacturing and supplying alcoholic beverages, hence evading payment of taxes. “ASL in the cause of carrying out its business fraudulently denied us collection of colossal amounts of taxes which we intend to demand. Preliminary investigations indicate tax evasion of up to Sh3 billion,” the court documents read. KRA sued the three companies after it discovered that Africa Spirit Limited has been making supplies of alcoholic beverages that were stamped with counterfeit excise stamps, denying the authority Sh3 billion in revenue. The action by ASL, according to the authorities is to evade tax payment and/or under-remit exercisable duty.According to KRA, “the company has been receiving uncustomed ethanol for alcohol production, and not properly accounting for manufacture of its excisable products.The accounts are scattered in seven banks, including Bank of Kenya and Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB), and are linked to three companies associated with Kariuki.” The documents were served to the companies to prohibit the transfer, withdrawal or disposal or dealing with money in the said accounts, pending hearing and determination of the case on March 8. Humphrey Kariuki Ndegwa is the founder of the famous Green Corner restaurant in Kenya, which the former American President, Barrack Obama referenced in his memoirs. Following the success of the restaurant, Ndegwa began importing wines and beverages, leading to him founding another very successful company then called Wines of The World, which is now widely known as WOW Beverages. For long, Ndegwa’s company was the sole distributor of many popular wines, whiskeys, and brands from Europe and America. After a streak of successful businesses in the restaurant and alcohol, the 62-year-old moved into the oil business by becoming an agent of the National Oil Company of Kenya (NOCK). He founded the oil company called Dalbit Petroleum, seizing the opportunity to purchase oil from NOCK for delivery to other parts of Kenya. His oil distribution business today has operations in Sudan, Kenya, Zambia, Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of Congo.