Improving the society is not a cross the government can bear alone and governments are increasingly depending on investments and support from citizen groups, Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and the private and non-profit sector. But the subject of human rights has always been a battle and hardly seen as a right in entirety as its name suggests, with many governments increasingly attacking the civil society by creating laws that subject them and their staff to strict surveillance and other crippling policies. Amnesty International in its most recent report, Laws Designed to Silence: The Global Crackdown on Civil Society Organizations reveals the startling number of countries that are using bullying techniques and repressive regulations to prevent NGOs from doing their vital work. Civil society can be understood as the third sector of society, distinct from government and business which stand for many things depending on their goals and objectives but they mostly offer assistance to those in need and are active in the advocacy of citizen rights by putting pressure on the authorities to provide infrastructure and services to areas in need. In total, there are 50 countries found to be guilty of this practice, some already have existing laws while others are still fiddling with their idea of passing the laws. Should these laws that are still in legislation be passed, it would introduce barriers to the registration of civil society organizations. According to the Egyptian constitution law 70 of 2017, failure to register an NGO is punishable by imprisonment and a fine. The same article specifies that “establishing or operating a body that conducts activities outlined in that law as civil society activities under any legal form except those outlined in the law” is punishable by a minimum of one year and a maximum of five years in prison and a fine of at least 50,000 EGP ($2,800) and a maximum of EGP1 million EGP ($56,000). In Egypt, the new NGO law requires prior approval to receive funding from abroad by a body called the National Authority for Regulation of Foreign Non-Governmental Organizations. The body includes representatives from the ministries of Foreign Affairs, Defence, Interior, the General Intelligence, and other governmental bodies. The law also requires prior approval for local fundraising and failure to secure permission is punishable by up to five years in prison and a fine of 1 million Egyptian pounds. For Algeria, the situation is slightly different but no less restricting. Anyone intending to form an association must obtain approval from the authorities. If denied, applicants can appeal the decision but since 2012 when the legislation was made the authorities have failed to respond to many registration applications, leaving many human rights groups, including Amnesty International’s national office, in legal limbo. In Algeria, the 2012 Law on Associations prohibits civil society organizations from receiving funds from foreign diplomatic offices or organizations outside a pre-established cooperation relationship. The law also requires that such funds be subject to the approval of the authorities, thereby subjecting associations to the authorities’ discretionary power and  limits organization’s ability to obtain and use resources. In the Central African country, law 45 lists the areas on which civil society organizations can work, but human rights are particularly omitted. The is an underlying informal agreement that allows only human rights organizations closely working with the government to operate. In Equatorial Guinea, legislation presents NGOs with serious administrative burdens, including the obligation to inform the authorities every time they receive income from abroad and to receive ministerial authorization to accept donations over CFA 50,000 ($100). NGOs must also present formal reports every three months The East African country adopted two laws in 2017, introducing new tight oversight measures and controls on national and international NGOs. National NGOs must receive ministerial approval that will be renewed ever two years for all their activities or face sanctions. Presently,  there is a ban on the formation of NGO coalitions to organizations working in the same sector, with the exclusion of religious groups and trade unions. In 2017, the country imposed stricter regulations for NGOs and community-based organizations which require organizations to align their activities with the government’s development policy; renew their registration every year; obtain project-level approval from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MOFED) as well as disclose details of all funds committed by donors for project implementation to sector ministries and MOFED. The country denies organizations that work to promote and defend human rights. Organizations such as the youth and pro-democracy association Kavana (Enough), the anti-slavery movement Initiative pour la Résurgence du Mouvement Abolitionniste (Initiative for the Resurgence of the Abolitionist Movement, IRA) and the association of relatives of victims of extrajudicial killings, Collectif des Veuves de Mauritanie (Widows’ Collective of Mauritania) have all been denied operation licences. In Malawi, a bill to amend the NGO Act was proposed in 2017. The aim was to introduce restrictions with regards to the fundings, registration and consultative roles of the civil society relating to their funding, registration. On November 9 2018, Malawi published the Bill, stating that civil organizations are subject to mandatory registration and non compliant organizations would face penalties. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, there is a pending Draft Bill on Non-Profit Organizations that aims to strengthen administrative controls through burdensome registration procedures, fees, external funding and reporting.