In order to create one African Market, Botswana and Zambia have signed the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA)  agreement at the just concluded Africa Union Summit. This was made known by Botswana’s President Mokgweetsi Masisi upon his return from the just-ended AU Summit while briefing journalists. According to him, the agreement would give Botswana the opportunity to “benefit from inter-regional trade within the African continent, and greatly contribute to the growth and diversification of its economy”. “We have received the documents so that we can ratify the agreement,” said Masisi. It would be recalled that Botswana and Zambia were among the countries that had not signed the AfCFTA following its establishment on March 21, 2018 in Rwanda, Kigali. The delay was largely attributed to negotiation on some of the protocols of the AfCFTA, as the countries wanted to consult stakeholders before signing. Botswana has also ended a decade-long snub of the continental gathering by its former president Ian Khama. It would be recalled that since  Khama took office in 2008 he only attended wildlife conferences and other similar meetings whenever invited, but he never attended any AU meeting, often delegating the foreign affairs minister and his vice president to attend AU summits on his behalf. In a press statement issued by the first press secretary at the Zambian mission in Addis Ababa, Inutu Mwanza said, “the AfCFTA will help resolve the challenges of multiple and overlapping memberships and expedite the regional and continental integration processes. It will also help to enhance competitiveness at the industry and enterprise level through exploiting opportunities for scale production, continental market access and better reallocation of resources.” Currently, Fifty-two out of fifty-five countries have signed the agreement and eighteen out of the required twenty-two have ratified the agreement. The eighteen countries are Chad, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Eswatini, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, Mali, Mauritania, Namibia, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Togo and Uganda while the three countries that are yet to sign the agreement includes Nigeria and Zimbabwe.