A 2015 Tanzanian tourism video advert begins with a herd of buffaloes running down a vast land and beautiful scenery where the giraffes slowly walk through a shallow sky blue water. The over ten minutes video goes on to show the alluring nature of wildlife in their natural habitat, a sight to behold. These animals that are meant to attract tourists to the country, are annoying to say the least, to locals living in environments surrounding parks, thanks to their destructive nature. Residents of the Rombo district in the Kilimanjaro region of the country are in danger of experiencing extreme food shortage should the animals continue to stroll past their reserved areas into their farmlands. Animals like elephants, monkeys, hyenas and leopards go beyond admiring the bananas and cash crops in the area to having a taste. Unfortunately, their huge appetites make them eat all in the farmlands, leaving nothing for the owners of the farm. Worse, the animals overpower some of the residents and leave them injured. More than 15 people have already been injured by the animals this season. This made known to the Deputy Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Constantine Kanyasu, by the commissioner of Rombo district, Agnes Hokororo, who noted that should the government not take concerted efforts in controlling wildlife from consuming the crops, a potential food crisis is looming. “Monkeys have become a big problem in many places, especially in Mashati village, where monkeys have been liberally entering houses and fighting with children over bananas. In principle, we are not allowed to touch wild animals but we continue to educate the people and have talked to the Kilimanjaro National Park (KINAPA) authorities to solve the problem,” Hokororo said. This problem is not peculiar to the Rombo district. In May 2018, animals had also caused threatening damages in the North of the Kilimanjaro plantation. Areas like Rongai and West Kilimanjaro plantations were badly affected. As of 2014, the total economic losses resulting from crop damage caused by wild animals on a per household basis was estimated to be TSh34,093 ($14.63) and this figure differed significantly between the villages, with the most losses encountered by the villages in closest proximity to the protected areas. This loss equated to an average loss of 16.7 percent of the
total household income resulting from crop harvest per annum. The villages
located closest to the protected areas reported the highest mean percentage loss
in the total household annual crop harvest income at 24.9 percent, equating TSh.
54,466 ($23.37).