The reach of social media can never be overstated. Social media is a world of its own, often abstract from the real world but sometimes bringing together the plethora of distant experiences in one thread. One thing is certain, social media gives people a voice. Often considered a faceless platform, many have expressed their views using strident tones, not minding who they offend. Others have constructively penned down their observations, grievances and experiences. Both have gotten results; some unprecedented, others backlashed. Here are a few times constructive criticism moved brands to change their perspective on situations. German personal care brand, Nivea witnessed first hand the power of social media when the company produced a television advert with accompanying billboards across Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon and Senegal, showing a dark skin lady using one of their products to lighten her skin. Worse still, in the advert, the model boasts of a visibly fairer skin that makes her feel younger. The advert did not resonate with a lot of Africans who accused Nivea of racism. After so much backlash and campaigns to boycott the company, Nivea apologized. Sadly, this is not the only time the first time Nivea has had to react to an outburst by social media for being racist. Nivea’s white is purity slogan for their Invisible for black and white deodorant was not welcomed and people took to social media to show their disapproval. The parent company Beiersdorf acknowledged the outrage, apologized and eventually recalled the advert. Another skin care brand to feel the heat of social media is Unilever’s Dove. The company released a three-second Facebook advert of a dark-skinned woman taking off a brown shirt, that symbolized her skin colour, only to reveal a white woman in a lighter colour shirt. Social media users disapproved of the advert saying it was racist, offensive and lacking in diversity. The company apologized and took down the Facebook advert. Kellogs, an American multinational food-manufacturing company headquartered in Battle Creek, Michigan, United States, had for the longest of times, had the slogan of its coco pops brand as loved by kids, approved by mums. In the previous dispensation which birthed the Coco Pops, Rice Kripsies and Pringles company, this would not have been a problem. Unfortunately, the age and time we are now, nothing is excusable. Ten-year-old Hannah- Marie Clayton constructively called out the company for being sexist. And this moved the company to action. The American penned down a letter stating the gross gender imbalance in the chocolate-flavoured cereal’s slogan. The slogan, while inane enough, enforces the idea that mothers are always the ones home with the kids in the morning, and for that approves their breakfast. But this is not so, at least not for all kids. “I feel the quote is sexist, men are also able to make breakfast. My dad does it a lot for me because my mum works away a lot and is not always there for breakfast. I would recommend instead of putting mums, put parents or carers. In this world today, we should not just rely on women,” The note to Kellogs read. Kellogs was very receptive and went as far as changing their slogan to “loved by kids, approved by parents.” Another striking change is that of cosmetics and personal care company, Revlon. The company was accused by the Breast Cancer Fund of using chemicals linked to cancer in its cosmetics. Initially, the Revlon called the charges false and defamatory and demanded a retraction. However, the company went back to its drawing board. Revlon reformulated some products to eliminate certain chemicals like the long-chain parabens and DMDM Hydantoin and Quaternium-15, which release tiny amounts of formaldehyde. For the first time after the public complaints, Revlon published an ingredients policy. In 2014, an environmental campaign group, GreenPeace ran a YouTube video campaign for three months, protesting Shell, the oil giant’s plans to drill in the Arctic. The YouTube video attracted nearly 6 million views, for its depiction of a pristine Arctic built from 120kg of Lego that was covered in oil. Danish toy maker, Lego had a long-standing partnership that dates to the 1960s with Shell. Shell sold Lego toys in its gas stations in 26 countries. After Greenpeace most watched Youtube video, over a million people emailed Lego asking it to end its deal with Shell. The toy maker listened. Lego ended up not signing a new deal with the oil company. The contract was worth $110 million. Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data scandal is another embodiment of the power of social media.  Harry Davies, a journalist for The Guardian first reported in 2015, the illicit harvesting of over 8.7 million Facebook users personal data by British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica. The scandal erupted on social media in March 2018 with the emergence of a whistleblower. After the Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal, Facebook vowed to make a litany of changes- from banning some external applications to giving users more control. The social media company also began rolling out new tools to enable users to protect themselves. Realising the influence of social media and the lengths stories people tell on social media can consume and shape people, companies and governments’ included, Social Media Week Lagos holding at Landmark Center, a state of the art event space in Lagos hopes to discuss ways people can take responsibility for their social posts. TheNerve Africa will also host corporate and marketing communications professionals in Nigeria at its Thursday, February 7, 2019 session during the SMW Lagos event. The topic of TheNerve Africa’s session is Thought Leadership and the Changing Rules of Content Marketing. The professionals participating in TheNerve Africa’s session will have the pleasure of listening to Oyinade Adegite, head of Corporate Communications at Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank), Omotola Oyebanjo, head of Corporate Communications at Lafarge and Idy Enang, CEO Corporate Shepherds. The three brand, corporate and marketing communications heavyweights will be discussing topic to be moderated by Founder and Practice director at AML Emilia Asim.  