French pharmaceutical company Biogaran has launched operations in Ivory Coast as it seeks to help the country tackle counterfeit drugs. The launching ceremony was held in the presence of French Ambassador’s Counselor, Ms. Annick Diener and of the Minister of Health and Public Hygiene of Ivory Coast, Dr. Aka Aouélé Eugène.  “Biogaran wishes to promote access to quality healthcare in West and Central Africa. We want to offer products that meet European standards at an affordable price. Thanks to an encouraging business climate and to strong logistical facilities, Ivory Coast appears to be the ideal base for our deployment in French-speaking West and Central Africa,” says Emmanuel Le Dœuff, Biogaran’s General Manager and International Affairs Director. Public health is one of the priorities that must be addressed to support and accelerate the development of the African continent. In 2005, according to the World Health Organization, 5.7 percent of the population in Ivory Coast suffered from diabetes and 21.7 percent from high blood pressure. In African countries in general, the prevalence of cardiovascular diseases is increasing sharply and patient care is sometimes insufficient. In addition to the challenge for high quality and affordable medicine, the penetration of counterfeit products is reaching an alarming rate. The WHO estimates that each year in Africa, 100 000 people die from the use of counterfeit drugs.  Thus, Biogaran is committed to monitoring all pharmaco-vigilance cases in Ivory Coast. As part of the Corporate Health Program, a CIAN initiative, Biogaran commits to provide free medical samples to recently diagnosed patients and support awareness campaigns against cardiovascular diseases.Biogaran’s already operates in Nigeria through indigenous drug production and distribution company Swipha which it invest in about two years agao, taking with a 95 percent equity buyout. The Swipha deal was Biogaran’s first major African investment. Pascal Brière, President of Biogaran, explained why the company invested invested in Nigeria. “We made a survey of many countries to check whether there was room for strong development of our Biogaran concept abroad but many of such countries were eliminated because they were very mature markets and there was no room for new development to succeed. Nigeria was a different market and had room for development.” Biogaran’s launch in Ivory Coast is expected to see it invest in a local company through which it can have a foothold in the West African country.  Biogaran is also looking to invest in Kenya.