State-owned electricity distribution company, Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA Holdings) has decided it is no longer in need of its Chief Executive Officer’s services, following allegations of corruption and criminal abuse of office meted against him in 2018. ZESA Holdings CEO, Joshua Chifamba was fired after the board decided not to extend his second term contract following his suspension and arrest over corruption and criminal abuse of office allegations. Last year, Chifamba was arrested alongside two other ZESA executives, Julian Chinembiri and Finance Director Thokozani Dhliwayo in connection with $35 million underhand deals involving an Indian company, PME Power Solutions. In 2011, Chifamba was appointed to be the CEO of ZESA Holdings and he signed a three year term contract which was to expire on January 31, 2014. However, the then Minister of Energy and Power Development Dzikamai Mavhaire extended Chifamba’s contract by six months. In 2013, the board released $35 million to procure equipment to revamp the utility. However, Chifamba reportedly purchased the equipment from India without reporting to the board. That was the beginning of his challenge. Chifamba was also implicated in a PowerTel Communications scandal which led to a public outcry to sack Chifamba in 2014. But the ZESA Management and Board did not see the need to do so and they unanimously agreed to extend Chifamba’s contract by four years to 2018. The contract was to be extended further but for the allegations and arrest. A letter by the company, as seen by Zimbabwean newspaper The Herald, noted that Chifamba’s contract would not be extended. For so many years, the electricity company has been unable to meet up with the electricity demands of Zimbabweans. The company resorted to load-shedding, a controlled temporary way of cutting power to parts of the country due to its shortage of capacity. Even when the company imported metres, it was discovered that about 11, 000 units were faulty. Auditor General, Mildred Chiri, had said in 2017, “Information on faulty meter statistics gathered from all regions indicated that the total number of prepaid meters deployed was 502,858 and at the time of audit on May 20, 2016, the failed meter quantity stood at 10,426, which was well above the acceptable failure quantity of 1,508. According to project management, all prepaid meter types supplied by contractors had exhibited a high failure rate above 1 percent instead of 0.3 which was the acceptable failure rate.” In addition, the company is said to have lost equipment worth millions of dollars to theft and vandalism on a yearly basis. In 2018, national electricity equipment valued at $3.7 million was lost through theft and vandalism. According to ZESA’s spokesperson, Fullard Gwasira “We have seen that the theft of our property is on the increase. Zesa lost about $3.7 million due to theft and vandalism and equipment worth about $500 thousand was recovered in 2018.” All these happened under Chifamba’s watch.