Recently, the police of Congo Republic and a team of African Parks’ eco-guards seized 41 pieces of ivory that weighed 86 kilograms from six suspects. According to African Parks, the ivory was hidden in large barrels and sacks of flour. Hearings will be held and the six suspects will be prosecuted in the regional courts. Over the years, the poaching of ivory has been a major threat to elephants in Central Africa but due to the collaboration with the government and other organizations on the ground, as well as local communities, success has been recorded in apprehending poachers. In a report published by World Wildlife Fund (WWF) titled Central Africa Biomonitoring Report, an estimated 9,500 forest elephants  and the number of elephants in the region declined by 66 percent between 2008 and 2016. As a result of these illegal activities, the population of African elephants is estimated to have declined by 111, 000 over the past ten years and WWF estimates that one elephant is killed every 15 minutes for its ivory, and some experts fear that the animal could face extinction within a decade if poaching continues. An investigation by  TRAFFIC, a United Kingdom based watchdog Non-Governmental Organization (NGO), revealed that the rise in international demand for raw ivory and the commensurate payoff for key players involved in getting ivory to countries such as China, Japan, Malaysia and Vietnam where consumer demand is high has driven Africa’s elephants into crisis. Although China has placed a ban on ivory trade but it still remains the world’s largest market for ivory. However, in the Central African region, countries like Gabon, Cameroon, Central African Republic, the Republic of Congo, and DRC are integral sources and waypoints in the international Ivory trade.  According to a research by Kristof Titeca published on The Conversation, ivory started becoming an important commodity in trading networks from around 2008 to 2009 and it came largely from countries like DRC and the Central African Republic but Uganda  served as the transit country. Between 2009 and 2014, an estimated 20 metric tons of Ivory was trafficked through Uganda, mainly to Asia. Ivory that come from the Central African Republic, South Sudan and DRC, are smuggled into the Ugandan border town of Arua near the Congolese border. This town links ivory suppliers, buyers, and transporters, and acts as a storage place. “Uganda’s capital Kampala is another example. Ivory comes into the city from the DRC border region as well as from other border regions (such as the border with Tanzania). From Kampala, Ivory either goes to Mombasa port, or it goes to Entebbe airport,” said Kristof Titeca. It is also worthy to note that governments of the Central African countries are putting efforts to stop this illicit trade. The government of DRC, for instance, has the National Ivory Action Plan of the DRC 2018-2019  to strengthen the fight against elephants poaching and illegal trafficking of Ivory and other elephant body parts in collaboration with key stakeholders as well as enacting a law for wildlife crime. As a result of this effort which includes series of raids by the Prosecutors’ Offices and the National Police, ivory items which used to be displayed  and sold on the shelves of the “Bikeko” market in Kinshasa, DRC can no longer be found. But more efforts need to be put in place to end this trade for good and protect the wildlife.