South African power utility Eskom has concluded a R15 billion ($1.1 billion) loan facility with a consortium of local and international banks. The facility guaranteed by the government will form part of the financing of Eskom’s current capital expenditure programme. “We have made significant progress in transitioning the business and securing funding. We are pleased that lenders have elected to continue partnering with Eskom on our journey to complete the capital expansion programme for the benefit of South Africa’s economy,” said Eskom Group Chief Executive Phakamani Hadebe on Friday. He said it is encouraging to note that financial markets continue to view the utility in a positive light as the company strives towards financial and operational sustainability. Eskom’s general manager of treasury Andre Pillay said the conclusion of the loan facility will ensure that liquidity requirements are fulfilled timeously. “To date we have raised and secured approximately 95 percent of the R72 billion funding requirement for financial year 18/19; the remaining 5 percent will be raised through various funding sources including domestic debt capital markets. “The stable liquidity position places us in a position to focus on securing funding for the next financial year (financial year 19/20 of which 30 percent has already been secured),” he said. Meanwhile, markets will be waiting to hear President Cyril Ramaphosa’s plans to restructure the embattled power utility and other state-owned entities (SOEs) as he delivers his second State of the Nation address on Thursday. Ramaphosa had while attending the World Economic Forum in January said that the government would announce “a set of measures to stabilise and improve the company’s (Eskom’s) financial position and to ensure uninterrupted energy supply”. The president had appointed a special task team to save Eskom and their advice is a strategic unbundling of the power utility into three units: generation, distribution and transmission. Nigeria currently runs a similar model, with distribution and generation companies privately-owned.