The predecessor of late Bob Collymore and board member of Safaricom Michael Joseph has been named interim CEO of the telecommunication firm This comes after the death of Collymore yesterday. “Mr Joseph will hold this position until the board communicates in due course, on a permanent appointment,” Safaricom said in a statement on Tuesday. Joseph, 67, who served the company from July 2000 and retired in November 2010 agreed to take the post pending when the company finds a permanent replacement. It would be recalled that Joseph transformed Safaricom from a subscriber base of less than 20,000 to more than 16.71 million. Following his appointment, some Kenyans have taken to social media to expressed their disappointment. They claim that the Chief Customer Officer of the company, Sylvia Mulinge, should have been offered the position instead. Sylvia Mulinge is the possible CEO for Safaricom, she was rejected by Tanzania but the country so far has not given VODAFONE a Tanzanian who can match her skills, do we need to go to UK & source another expatriate when we have qualified Omondi,Simiyiu, Akinyi who can do this job pic.twitter.com/zSN4g13V13 I won't buy Safaricom Airtime until Sylvia Mulinge is appointed as the CEO. It is about time we support our own. Michael Joseph is a step back Sylvia Mulinge #Sylvia Mulinge Appoint her If you want to see Safaricom go down…  My choice for Bob Collymore replacement at @SafaricomPLC remains is Sylvia Mulinge #SylviaMulingeForCEO pic.twitter.com/ZNER3ANA8Q Michael Joseph isn’t a transformative leader. He was at the right place at the right time as 1st CEO of Safaricom.. MJ has neither charisma nor humility of Bob Collymore .. His failure to turn around Kenya Airways shows his ability .. Sylvia Mulinge deserves to be appointed CEO. After taking over from Joseph as CEO in 2019, Bob Collymore’s appointment was also not received with so much joy as some people expected nothing less from him but surprisingly he proved them wrong. He was able to grow the company exponentially by turning the company to East Africa’s most profitable company with $11 billion. This growth was attributed to the good performance of MPESA, text, and data. Joseph is currently the director of Mobile Money and a strategic adviser on the boards of Vodacom South Africa, Vodacom Tanzania and Vodacom Mozambique. He is also the chairman of Kenya Airways.