Nigeria has seen some improvement in the World Bank’s annual Ease of Doing Business report released today October 24. The 2020 report revealed that the country moved up 15 places to 131 from the 146 position it was ranked in 2019. Nigeria was among the top ten economies that improved the most for a second time on the ease of doing business after implementing a series of regulatory reforms. “Doing Business acknowledges the 10 economies that improved the most on the ease of doing business after implementing regulatory reforms. In Doing Business 2020, the top ten improvers are Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Togo, Bahrain, Tajikistan, Pakistan, Kuwait, China, India, and Nigeria. These economies implemented a total of 59 regulatory reforms in 2018/19— accounting for one-fifth of all the reforms recorded worldwide,” the report revealed. The ease of doing Business report examined changes in the regulation of business activity in 190 economies. It looks at regulations affecting 12 areas of the life of a business are covered: starting a business, dealing with construction permits, getting electricity, registering property, getting credit, protecting minority investors, paying taxes, trading across borders, enforcing contracts, resolving insolvency, employing workers, and contracting with the government. The employing workers and contracting with the government indicator sets are not included in this year’s ranking on the ease of doing business. According to the report, only two Sub-Saharan African economies, Nigeria and Togo ranked in the top 50 on the ease of doing business rankings while most of the bottom 20 economies in the global rankings are from the region.  Kenya and Nigeria each implemented six reforms each, followed by Togo and Zimbabwe with 5 reforms. When compared to other parts of the world, Sub-Saharan Africa still underperforms in several areas. In getting electricity, for example, businesses must pay more than 3,100 percent of income per capita to connect to the grid, compared to just over 400 percent in the Middle East and North Africa or 272 percent in Europe and Central Asia. Also, when it comes to trading across borders and paying taxes, businesses spend about 96 hours to comply with documentary requirements to import, versus 3.4 hours in OECD high-income economies, and small and medium-sized businesses in their second year of operation need to pay taxes more than 36 times a year, compared to an average of 23 times globally, the report showed. When compared to other parts of the world, Sub-Saharan Africa still underperforms in several areas. In getting electricity, for example, businesses must pay more than 3,100 percent of income per capita to connect to the grid, compared to just over 400 percent in the Middle East and North Africa or 272 percent in Europe and Central Asia. Also, when it comes to trading across borders and paying taxes, businesses spend about 96 hours to comply with documentary requirements to import, versus 3.4 hours in OECD high-income economies, and small and medium-sized businesses in their second year of operation need to pay taxes more than 36 times a year, compared to an average of 23 times globally.” However, according to the World Bank, Nigeria was able to witness this improvement due to the following reasons Making it easier to start a business Nigeria made starting a business easier by reducing the time needed to register a company and by improving online platforms. This reform applies to both Kano and Lagos. Nigeria (Kano) also made starting a business easier by no longer requiring on-site inspections for business premises registration. Dealing with construction permits The country made dealing with construction permits less costly by eliminating the Infrastructure Development Charge (IDC, the fee for construction permits) for warehouses. Getting electricity Electricity is a necessity for any business to function properly and expand. It is also an important element in the competitiveness and strengthening of human capital in an economy. Higher electricity costs tend to have an adverse impact on businesses and as prices rise, firms shift their focus to less electricity-intensive production processes, resulting in reduced output and productivity. In Nigeria, increases in energy consumption have been found to spur economic expansion.  Hence, the country made it easier to get electricity by allowing certified engineers to conduct inspections for new connections. This reform applies to both Kano and Lagos. Registering property Nigeria’s land administration system was improved by the implementation of a geographic information system. Trading across borders Nigeria reduced the time to export and import by further upgrading its electronic system and by launching e-payment of fees. This reform applies to both Kano and Lagos. Enforcing contracts Nigeria also made enforcing contracts easier by introducing a pretrial conference as part of the case management techniques used in court. This reform applies to both Kano and Lagos. Nigeria (Kano) also made enforcing contracts easier by issuing new rules of civil procedure for small claims courts, which limit adjournments to unforeseen and exceptional circumstances. However, it is worthy to note that the report does not cover all the areas pertinent to private sector development and growth. It does not assess market size, the soundness and depth of financial markets, macroeconomic conditions, foreign investment, security or political stability. However, the Doing Business indicators do offer insights for policymakers to identify areas for reform and improve the local business environment. 