A South African Tech startup is making it possible for people to eat their bowls. Munch Bowls pty limited a company based in Cape Town makes edible soup and salad bowls known as Munch Bowls from stone-ground unbleached chemical-free flour. This was made possible after the company won a grant from Dubai Expo 2020 to increase production and replace other non-green friendly food containers such as Styrofoam. Munch Bowls offers an alternative to single-use plastics or polystyrene containers, in a shift from waste-generating materials. There are somewhat eco-friendly reusable containers, however, there are concerns that the industrial chemical substance in most of these plastic products known as BPA (bisphenol A) is linked to cancer and other health issues. This innovation by Munch Bowls is happening at a time when Africa and the world at large are trying to look away from other Food containers which are not environmentally friendly. Munch Bowls offers an alternative to single-use plastics or polystyrene containers, in a shift from waste-generating materials. Currently, the amount of waste on the streets from this non-environmentally friendly food containers is really worrisome as there is a huge environmental cost associated with using them. According to the first-ever comprehensive study of the environmental impacts of disposable takeaway-food containers by the University of Manchester, Styrofoam containers have the lowest carbon footprint — 50 percent lower than aluminium containers and three times lower than their plastic counterparts. However, they cannot be considered a sustainable packaging as they are not recycled at a mass level and often end up in the landfill. The global takeaway food market is growing fast, with a projected value of over £80 billion in 2020. Munch Bowl makes 250ml bowls, 100ml saucers and 30ml canape containers in plain and sweet flavours. They have a shelf life of at least 15 months and “can hold any foods, including hot soups, for more than five hours, while maintaining their crispness.” When the food they carry has been consumed, the bowls can be composted … or munched. “Our passion is to inspire a conscious lifestyle by giving an alternative choice to the convenience food, catering and hospitality industry, locally and internationally,” Munch Bowls founder and co-director, Georgina de Kock, told Fin24. Currently, the company is raising funds for the development of new edible products which includes spoons and chopsticks. According to Munch bowls, its crisp bowls are made from several edible products which includes Flour (gluten), Digestive bran (gluten), Low in sodium, sugar and oil (canola oil – plant-based). It doesn’t include artificial colourants or flavouring, yeast, Rooibos extract and GMO products.