Goldman Sachs Group Inc led International Finance Corp. and other investors to raise $23.8 million in equity funding for a Kenyan fresh-foods distributor, Twiga Foods Ltd in order to expand across the continent. Other investors include private-equity company Creadev SAS, venture-capital firm TLCom Capital Partners Ltd and other existing shareholders. “This funding enables us to invest in our technology and organization to tackle the inefficiencies in Africa’s domestic food production and distribution ecosystems,” Twiga Chief Executive Officer Peter Njonjo said in the statement. They also raised another $6 million in debt from Overseas Private Investment Corp. and AlphaMundi Group AG. A total of $30 million was raised by the New York-based lender in Series B round. It is worthy to note that Goldman Sachs has backed several African startups, such as e-commerce venture Jumia and South African fintech startup Jumo. “We are developing technology-driven commercial solutions and cooperating with existing industry players to solve the challenge of food security in Africa.” The startup which is looking at expanding across the continent is first eyeing other East African cities, such as Dar es Salaam in Tanzania and the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, before exploring Africa’s most populous city, Lagos. Twiga Foods in 2017 raised  $10.3 million in a Series A round led by Wamda Capital. In April 2018, the startup partnered with IBM Africa to introduce Blockchain-Based MicroFinancing for Food Kiosk Owners in Kenya. In November 2018, Twiga Foods raised $10 million from investors led by the International Finance Corporation and TLcom Capital to add processed food and fast-moving consumer goods to its product line-up. Prior to this, Twiga was focused on agricultural goods and connecting the produce of farmers more efficiently to marketplaces. The fund was in the form of convertible notes which will be available later as equity. French-based investor Creadev in June this year, invested $5 million Twiga Foods in a deal that will also see the Mulliez family, one of the richest in the world and which controls the private equity firm, acquire a stake in the company. Founded in 2014 in Nairobi by Peter Njonjo and Grant Brooke, the startup serves around 3,000 outlets a day with products through a network of 17,000 farmers and 8,000 vendors. According to Njonjo, the company has helped reduced post-harvest losses in Kenya from 30 percent to 4 percent for produce brought to market on the Twiga network. Globally, food is often discarded, uneaten or lost at the stages of production, processing, retailing and consumption. In Africa however, the bulk of wasted food is from post-harvest loss and consumer preferences. A report from the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations (FAO), revealed that the amount of food wasted in Africa is enough to feed 300 million people. This clearly suggests that Africa produces more than enough to feed itself. It is also evident in the growing number of  Agriculture Technology (Agtech) platforms such as Kenya’s Twigza, Nigeria’s Farmcrowdy and Ghana’s Agrocenta.