About two weeks ago, Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta refused to approve the 2019/2020 (July-June) budget unless lawmakers remove a cap on commercial lending rates. Meanwhile, the lawmakers have rejected several requests by the Treasury to remove the cap proved abortive, saying the lenders had not proven they could be trusted to lower rates without pressure. With recent events, it seems the lawmakers are about to make a U-turn. The finance committee of the legislature said that Kenya’s parliament should repeal a cap on commercial lending rates in line with the president’s demands. The committee is also proposing that even after the cap is repealed, existing loans should be shielded from any increases in rates but the committee’s recommendations are subject to the parliament vote. It will be recalled that in 2016, the government limited rates banks can charge customers to four percentage points above the central bank’s benchmark which is currently 9 percent over worries of high rates. When this move was made the Kenya Bankers Association, an umbrella body of lenders, and Kenya’s central bank both publicly opposed the bill, with banks saying that such a cap would force them to stop lending to high-risk borrowers. Over these years, the cap has had plenty of issues as it has failed to address the intended objective particularly in expanding credit access. The cap has reduced the credit growth of the private sector as commercial banks cut off millions of low-income customers deemed too risky to lend to. The central bank, found in a study carried out last year that the cap had probably cut 0.4 percent from 2017’s economic growth, has complained that the cap has also made it hard it to transmit its monetary policy signals. If the members of parliament agree to the removal of the cap, borrowers will be left at the mercy of banks as they will now have the freedom to price their loans depending on their risk assessment. Analysts at Moodys Investors Service believe that the President’s move to reject the Finance Bill 2019 unless parliament scraps the interest rate caps augurs well for Kenya’s credit sector. The credit rating agency suggests that the repeals would gradually lead to a higher private sector credit growth and overall economic growth. At the same time, higher lending rates would boost banks’ profits to levels similar to pre-cap periods. Moody’s anticipates that revising the interest rate caps would provoke higher lending rates for SMEs over the next 12-18 months while stabilizing banks’ non-performing loans and eventually decline the NPL ratio. The agency also believes that this will improve banks’ preference towards the SMEs lending over the government and corporate borrowers.