The World Bank arbitration court has ordered Tanzania to pay the sum of $185 million to the Hong Kong subsidiary of Standard Chartered for breaching an energy contract. This figure which was made known yesterday October 15 after the court’s ruling, is less than the $352.5 million sought by Standard Chartered Bank Hong Kong (SCB HK). This judgement is as a result of a legal tussle between the Tanzanian Government and privately-owned independent power producer,  Independent Power Tanzania Limited (IPTL), which led to the sacking of several ministers in 2014.  It would be recalled that in 2005, SCB HK acquired IPTL’s loan. “Neither the government nor (state power company) TANESCO, have a legal liability in these cases,” Abbasi said on Twitter on Wednesday. Tanzania’s attorney general Adelardus Kilangi said that IPTL, not the government, would have to pay Standard Chartered. “When the award says that the Tanzanian government should pay Standard Chartered Bank, the actual meaning is that the government should supervise IPTL to make the payment,” he told Reuters. This adds to pressure on the East African nation, which is faced with several other multi-million claims from international investors. Tanesco is also facing a claim from United States-based Symbion Power for USD 561 million. In 2008 an International Centre for Settlement of Investment (ICSID) tribunal ruled against Tanzania regarding a claim by Anglo-German water company Biwater Gauff, although no damages were awarded. In 2017 Acacia Mining, a UK-headquartered gold mining company, initiated arbitral proceedings against the government, after an export ban left it unable to export any gold from its two mines in the country. The government, in turn, slammed Acacia with a $190 billion bill for unpaid taxes and penalties. Following all these litigations outside the country, on September  12 2018, the Tanzanian Parliament signed the Public Private Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2018 (the PPP Bill) into law. The bill includes a provision requiring foreign investors to resolve disputes exclusively through Tanzania’s domestic courts, without recourse to international arbitration. This has been a cause of alarm among international investors, because the new legislation handed the Tanzanian government and judiciary greater control over mining, oil and gas operations in the country, including the right to renegotiate or remove certain terms from existing contracts.