For humans, Sugar is an important source of energy that is needed to go about our daily lives. However, one mans meat is another man’s poison, or in this case, one human’s source of energy is another insect’s poison. While Sugar may be a treat for humans it can be life-threatening for insects and the Eva Adelaja Girl’s Senior Secondary Grammar school, in Nigeria’s Lagos state is harnessing its sweet potential to develop insecticides. The sweet-tasting, soluble carbohydrate which can be found in all sorts of foods including fruit, vegetables and honey has a good and bad reputation. From improving the taste of food, providing structure and texture, to acting as a natural preservative and insecticide. While the human brain requires around 130 grams of sugar per day to keep functioning, that amount of sugar can stop the organs of many insects. When the Lagos State Ministry of Agriculture hosted the science-based school competition for government schools in various local governments, the aim was to showcase and award schools with marketable talents who have excelled. Different schools went home with prizes but the most intriguing was the sugarcraft competition: Different uses of sugar which was sponsored by Dangote Sugar. The students spent the week before the world food day in the science laboratories and the classrooms thinking and experimenting on the different uses of sugar. While some came up with ideas to use sugar as exfoliant, glass stain remover and other things, the most innovative idea was the idea to control pests with sugar. Oyesoya Onyedamola, Amara and some other school mates began their experiment with their books and on google before taking it down to the lab. After vigorous research and hours of study, the idea clicked– Borax and sugar. Borax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is a naturally occurring chemical compound containing the element boron, a mineral, and a salt of boric acid. Borax has various home and garden uses, including as an insecticide, a weedkiller or a household mould remediation and can be in a crystalline powder form. The acid which borax is made from, boric acid, is toxic substance for humans and pets when ingested, inhaled or absorbed through the skin, and should always be handled with care. Knowing the risks involved in working with this chemical compound, did not deter the girls from anticipating the outcome of their experiment. Quietly and carefully, the girls began mixing different the borax, sugar and various other things. Finally, they came up with insecticide and hair gel. This follows a recent discovery by researchers that erythritol, a sugar alcohol food additive that is used as a sugar substitute kills insects. The study suggests erythritol could be an effective and human-safe insecticide. If sugar substitutes have such toxic effects on insects, how much more the sugar? When mixed with a potent chemical like borax, the girls, with the guidance of their teachers and the support from Dangote sugar, discovered that they could make a strong and effective insecticide to be used at home, on farms and will help them win the sugarcraft competition. They began mixing equal tablespoons boric acid powder, sugar and the dissolved the mixture in warm water to create their sugar-based insecticide. While, the sugar will attract the insects, including ants and cockroaches, the soluble boric acid will kill them. Onyesoya Adedamola who spoke with TheNerve Africa said “we mixed an equal amount of borax and an equal amount of sugar, we found that sugar can be used for different things but we just came up with the insecticide and gel. Presently there are no plans to make it a brand but if Dangote wants to use our ideas then maybe.” According to research, invasive insects cause at least 69 billion euros of damage per annum worldwide, and cockroaches are invasive insects. Since 1993, the annual worldwide cost of diamondback moth, Plutella xylostella control has been routinely quoted to be $1 billion. Typically, fumigation typically costs between $1,200 and $2,500 for a 1,250-square foot house and $2,200 -$3,800 for a 2,500-square foot house. In Nigeria, the cost ranges between $27.59  (10,000 Naira) to $200 in extreme infestation cases but there are cheaper insecticides. However, if funds are injected to produce the insecticides of these students, Nigeria may be a step closer to tackling one of the problems affect a lot of household.