The United States of America has cancelled a $190 million grant to Ghana after the West African country terminated an electricity deal with a private firm, Power Distribution Services (PDS) Ghana Limited. This announcement was made known by the US embassy. In 2013, US former President Barrack Obama launched a “Power Africa” initiative aimed at bringing electricity to millions of households in Africa. In 2014, a US government foreign assistance agency, the Millenium Challenge Corporation (MCC), agreed to provide $498 million in funding to Ghana’s power sector to help stimulate further private investment. Ghana had the largest share of the initiative. At the time of signing the agreement one of the reforms, both parties agreed on was the handing over operations at state-run Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) to Ghana Power Distribution Services (PDS), a consortium led by Philippine electricity company Meralco. However, according to Reuters, Ghana’s current finance minister, Ken Ofori-Atta last week informed U.S. officials that the government was cancelling the 20-year concession it had signed with PDS, saying payment guarantees provided were not satisfactory. In response to the termination, US embassy said the termination of the contract was unjustified, “The United States underscores the importance of contract sanctity as essential to a conducive investment climate and a pre-condition for inclusive economic growth.” This comes about three months after the Minister of Information, Mr Kojo Oppong Nkrumah issued a statement saying that the government through the Ministry of Finance and the Electricity Company of Ghana (ECG) Limited has suspended the concession agreement with Power Distribution Services (PDS) Ghana Limited. He said that the decision followed the detection of fundamental and material breaches of PDS’ obligation in the provision of Payment Securities (Demand Guarantees) for the transaction. “The Demand Guarantees were key prerequisites for the lease of assets on March 1, 2019, to secure the assets that were transferred to the concessionaire. The government is conducting a full enquiry into the matter, and the outcome will inform the next course of action. Government has taken steps to ensure distribution, billing and payment services continue uninterrupted,” the July statement said. From all indications, this decision was as a result of the findings from the enquiry.