Russia, through its Nuclear energy company, Rosatom seems to be pursuing energy dominance in the world as well as political influence and has extended its foothold to Africa after a 10-year hiatus. Given that most African countries rely on fossil fuels as sources of energy to power their economy and energy cost has continually skyrocketed,  Russia’s nuclear deal seems to have come to the rescue. To meet the skyrocketing demand for energy that is projected to triple by 2030, African countries are starting to invest in alternate energy as it will help diversify energy sources, serve as a boost for economic development and help achieve sustainable development goals. This has seen an increase in nuclear energy. At the Russia-Africa summit in Sochi, this October, which brought together the heads of state and government representatives from 55 countries, Russian President Vladimir Putin said his government was offering African countries an opportunity to use nuclear technology. “Rosatom is prepared to help our African partners in creating a nuclear industry,” with “the construction of research centers based on multifunctional reactors,” he said. Russia’s nuclear deals usually begin with a memorandum of understanding that Rosatom uses to blanket the nuclear construction market and squeeze out competition. As of 2017, Russia’s state-owned nuclear firm, noted that it has 27 of these MoUs and other arrangements, amounting to $135 billion in incoming business. While South Africa is the only country on the African continent with a nuclear power plant, Rosatom is currently building a $29 billion nuclear plant for Egypt and is helping the Republic of Congo and Rwanda establish nuclear facilities. Uganda and Russia also have an existing pact on the development of uranium into nuclear power for “peaceful purposes” and Uganda is looking to build its first nuclear power plant by 2034. The Moscow state-owned nuclear-energy company signed an MoU with Kenya that would see it participate in the nuclear plant project, including the construction of a new power station. The Kenya Nuclear Electricity Board says the country will need at least $20 million to put up its 4,000MW plants, which it hopes to be operational by 2023. The Russian nuclear energy company also has plans to develop nuclear energy in Tanzania following the discovery of uranium in southern Tanzania. Tanzania nuclear plant’s dream is to be realized by 2025 and will require at least $4 billion to actualize. As the front runner in South Africa’s stalled 9.6 GW nuclear new build programme,  Rosatom has established an office in Johannesburg; an indicator of how serious it is about turning Africa into a nuclear energy powerhouse, in line with Russia’s nuclear agenda in Africa. Asides, Egypt, Rwanda and Uganda, other countries in Africa have shown interest or signed deals for Rosatom’s nuclear reactors even with the increasing concerns from environmentalists who say nuclear energy is not always clean and does not come free. Nigeria has a deal with Rosatom for the construction of a nuclear reactor, and less ambitious agreements of cooperation have been signed with Sudan, Ethiopia and the Republic of the Congo. Russia has also set up offices to promote nuclear energy in Zambia, with well-funded outreach campaigns designed to drum up enthusiasm. The epileptic state of energy in the continent has stunted the growth of domestic companies and discouraged international investment and foreign firms from setting up manufacturing plants in the continent, hence, the need to foster an environment in which companies can enter energy generation, transmission and distribution markets, climb the value chain, and build the investment partnerships that can drive growth and create jobs. While nuclear power supporters argue that the lengthy construction times of nuclear reactors allow poorer countries to build up their infrastructure. Some other nuclear experts disagree on the grounds that third-generation light-water technology was not suited to many African countries. “In terms of economic sense, smaller countries that have a long way to go to develop their grids would be better off aiming for something like smaller modular reactors,” Névine Schepers, a nuclear expert at the International Institute of Strategic Studies in London is quoted to have said. Nuclear power is a cost-effective and reliable baseload power source and countries that have run on nuclear energy promises uninterrupted power supply for 60-80 years at a predictable price which does not depend on the volatility of global prices for energy resources. However, with the good comes the bad. One negative impact associated with nuclear physics is the radiation, and the ongoing debate is that it’s harmful to human life. According to Putin, the African-Russian Summit will also be an opportunity for Russia to offer help to African countries without political conditions unlike the “exploitative West”. Putin who has repeatedly expressed that Africa is increasingly becoming a continent of opportunity noted that the summit will be an opportunity for Russia to offer help to African countries without political conditions unlike the “exploitative West”. However, there are always hidden political conditions that may not be glaring. One can only hope that African leaders’ decision to lay in bed with Russia will not come back and haunt the African Continent. Trade between Russia and Africa is currently about 20 billion dollars, just 10 percent of China’s 200 billion and according to Putin, “We plan to expand trade and economic co-operation and we believe we can bring it to higher levels and reach at least $40 billion”