The International Monetary Fund team, led by Carlo Sdralevich, which visited Accra from September 30 to October 11, 2019, to conduct discussions on the 2019 Article IV Consultation revealed that Ghana’s macroeconomic outlook remains favourable as it is expected to rise to around 7 percent this year, up from 6.3 percent. This is supported by strong activity in the extractive industry and a safer banking system. The IMF had in April this year projected that Ghana is expected to be the fastest-growing economy in sub-Saharan Africa by 2019 with a growth rate of 8.8 percent which meant that Ghana would once again take the position of the rising star of Africa which it occupied in 2011. Despite this downward review, the IMF also revealed that September consumer price inflation at 7.6 percent in the rebased CPI series, is just below the 8 percent target. The cedi has depreciated by about 10 percent from the beginning of 2019. Bank of Ghana’s international reserves are projected to record a build-up in 2019, supported mainly by an improving trade balance and external borrowing. The primary risk to the outlook remains policy relaxation in the run-up to the 2020 elections. Even with the single inflation digit, the cost of living in Ghana is still on the high side. IMF also revealed that “The monetary policy stance appears appropriate, but it should continue to remain vigilant to inflationary risks. Tightening may become necessary should inflationary or exchange rate pressures emerge. The central bank’s focus on building external buffers going into 2020 is a welcome development.” “The Bank of Ghana is well advanced in the clean-up of the savings and loans and finance house sub-sectors, another important piece in the extensive reform of the financial sector. The recapitalization of the remaining locally-owned banks and the reduction of the overhang of nonperforming loans will be key to boosting credit to the private sector and to buttress growth in non-extractive activities,”  It also found. It would be recalled that the Bank of Ghana also dissolved nine insolvent banks over a period of 18 months, in line with its commitment to clean up the banking sector and develop structural reforms to strengthen public financial management. Despite this downward positive review by IMF Ghana still needs to alleviate the suffering of its citizenry, it needs to look at these issues currently affecting its economy. Erratic Power Supply There is a continued and intensifying weaknesses of the state-owned utility providers, which continue to make significant losses and thus could add to the government’s risk of debt distress and constrain growth. Currently, Ghanaians are suffering from the erratic power supply which is affecting a lot of businesses and households in the country. They have now resulted in spending money to buy petrol for their power generating sets in order to have light. Government spending Ghana needs to look at its government spending by providing the legislation that outlaws large deficits to the establishment of fiscal supervisory councils. This is because government spending has a ripple effect on businesses and jobs. The government also needs to prioritize its spendings such as spending on providing Chalks, desks, chairs and better infrastructure in schools for Ghanaian students rather than providing free school uniform. It also needs to be careful so as not to deep hands into the country’s coffers and spend on the upcoming election. Dependence on importation The country is also heavily dependent on import for almost everything, including meat and chicken. This dependence has affected the growth of the economy negatively and made the Ghanaian Cedis continually depreciate against all other major currencies. Although the Ghanaian Central Bank last week revealed that the Ghana cedi recovered to levels that appropriately reflected the state of the economy after “overshooting” during a slump in the first quarter.