South African airport management company, Airports Company of South Africa, (Acsa) on October 22  impounded Zimbabwe Air’s only operational plane. According to a statement on Acsa’s website “As a cash client, Air Zimbabwe is required to settle on each Monday the amounts owing for landing fees, parking fees and the passenger service charge for its weekly flights, as well as an amount towards settling arrears on its account. Air Zimbabwe has not adhered to the cash basis terms for using airports owned by Airports Company South Africa.” “The company informed Air Zimbabwe by letter on 18 October that it will not be allowed to depart from any of Airports Company South Africa’s nine airports and that the prohibition will remain in place until outstanding amounts are settled.” A landing fee is a charge paid by an aircraft to an airport company for landing at a particular airport and it varies by the airport. It usually depends on the size and weight of the aircraft and may encompass additional airport provided services. The fees are used to maintain runways and airport buildings Some airports charge a single fee for landing and provide gates and check-in facilities as part of that fee. While some other airports charge a lower fee for landing and still charge airlines for the use of gates and check-in facilities. The fees range between $100 to $500, however, in certain situations, the fees are waived if the aircraft is refuelling at the airport. In South Africa, Airport tariffs relate to passenger service charges, aircraft landing fees and aircraft parking fees.  Landing fees and parking fees, which are dependent on weight and origin of aircraft, are recovered directly from the airlines, whilst passenger service charges are recovered through the air ticket directly from the traveller. All these are handled by the Airports Company South Africa which was established through the Airports Company Act of 1993. In the country, Landing fees vary according to the origin of the aircraft and the aircraft weight and these also fall into three categories: domestic, regional and international. For aircraft parking fees, the combination of the weight of the aircraft and the duration parked (to the extent that it exceeds four hours) and the parking stand utilised are considered in determining the parking charges. Struggling Air Zimbabwe which has debts of more than $300 million was ban from operating in the European Union in 2017 due to safety concerns. In April this year, Air Zimbabwe experienced “a malfunction” in one of its engines causing a brief fire on the plane en route International Airport to Harare from OR Tambo. Last year, the finance minister Patrick Chinamasa said Zimbabwe partnered with an unidentified Malaysian firm to buy four Boeing 777 planes for $70 million, but so far has paid for two. The government also plans to acquire a total of 15 aeroplanes under the public-private partnership agreement (PPP) with investors in the diaspora. With the impound in South Africa, passengers were stranded and had to be accommodated by other airlines. Although Air Zimbabwe says it is in conversation with Acsa to release the aircraft, it is uncertain how long it will take to get the plane back on its wings. 