Smallholder tea farmers in Kenya could get a Ksh1.6 billion ($15.4million) financing option from the government in order to diversify their product by setting up black orthodox tea production units. This was made known by Kenya’s Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri who said that the proposal is now before the Head of Public Service, Joseph Kinyua, and the Cabinet for consideration. “In a bid to help our tea farmers realize better earnings, I have written to both the Head of Public Service as well as the Cabinet, requesting that government considers the option of extending a Ksh1.6 billion concessional loan to farmers to assist them to put up orthodox tea production units over the next one year,” Kiunjuri said. He also added that the financing would come with a hiatus of a one-year moratorium to further cushion farmers from having to repay the facility immediately at a concessional interest rate of 3 percent as opposed to the current market rate of 13 per cent for commercial loans. “To cushion the farmer from high-interest rates, we are proposing to have the interest rates attached on the facility to be substantially discounted to a level of around three per cent per year as opposed to the prevailing rates of 13 per cent. Further, we propose that farmers are given a one-year grace period before they can start repayment so that they can realize the immediate benefits of the new production units,” he added. Currently, in Kenya, there are only seven smallholder tea factories which have black orthodox tea production units and they are located in Kangaita, Imenti, Micimikuru, Itumbe, Kiru, Thumaita and Gitugi. Three more units located in Chinga, Kimunye and Kagwe are also scheduled for completion by end of the year. Black orthodox Tea, a loose tea produced using the traditional method of tea production such as plucking, withering, rolling, oxidation and drying fetches more prices at the tea auction than the normal tea. Hence the boost in the production of this type of tea will help cushion farmers from the volatile prices associated with traditional teas. According to the East African Tea Trade Association (EATTA), the prices of tea fell last year due to several factors, the tea trade has not embraced and kept pace with the changing consumer demands from tradition and culture to health and wellness benefits in tea. This requires a need to shift towards premium tea and high-value speciality teas as consumers are more knowledgeable about tea varieties and origin. If this intervention comes through, it is expected that farmers will start realizing stable tea prices over the short term as a result of enhanced production of alternative, but more profitable, teas, according to Kiunjuri.